articles/app-service-logic/app-service-logic-connectors-list.md, before:

<properties
	pageTitle="List of Connectors and API Apps | Azure"
	description="Read about the Connectors and API Apps in Azure App Service; microservices architecture"
	services="app-service\logic"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="MandiOhlinger"
	manager="dwrede"
	editor="cgronlun"/>

<tags
	ms.service="app-service-logic"
	ms.workload="integration"
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
	ms.devlang="na"
	ms.topic="article"
	ms.date="08/05/2015"
	ms.author="mandia"/>


# Connectors and API Apps List in Microsoft Azure App Service
This topic lists all the available connectors and API Apps created by Microsoft.

For pricing information and a list of what is included with each Service Tier, see [Azure App Service Pricing](http://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/app-service/).


## Standard Connectors
The following table lists all the available connectors and API Apps created by Microsoft that are available with the Standard Connectors:

Name | Description
--- | ---
[Azure HDInsight](app-service-logic-connector-hdinsight.md) | Use this connector to create a Hadoop cluster on Azure, submit different Hadoop jobs, and more.
[Azure Service Bus](app-service-logic-connector-azureservicebus.md) | Can send messages from Service Bus Queues and Topics and receive messages from Service Bus Queues and Subscriptions.
[Azure Storage Blob](app-service-logic-connector-azurestorageblob.md) | Connects to Blob storage and can get, delete, list, and more. 
[Box](app-service-logic-connector-box.md) | Connects to Box and can upload, get, delete, list, and more file tasks.
[Chatter](app-service-logic-connector-chatter.md) | Connects to Chatter and can post messages, search, and even retrieve new messages.
[Dropbox](app-service-logic-connector-dropbox.md) | Connect to Dropbox and can get, delete,  list, and more file tasks.
[Facebook](app-service-logic-connector-facebook.md) | Connect to Facebook and can publish messages, pictures, and more. You can also get messages and comments, get user information about different likes, including books and movies.
[File](app-service-logic-connector-file.md) | Using this connector, you can connect to the on-premises file system or network and complete different file tasks, including uploading, deleting, listing files, and more.
[FTP<br/>FTPS](app-service-logic-connector-ftp.md) | Connects to an FTP / FTPS server and   do different FTP tasks, including uploading, getting, deleting files, and more.
[HTTP](app-service-logic-connector-http.md) | The HTTP Listener opens an endpoint that acts as an HTTP server and listens to incoming HTTP or HTTPS requests. The HTTP action doesn't require an API App and is supported natively within Logic Apps.
[Microsoft Office 365](app-service-logic-connector-office365.md) | The Office 365 Connector can send and receive emails, manage your calendar, and manage your contacts using your Office 365 account.
[Microsoft OneDrive](app-service-logic-connector-onedrive.md) | Connects to your personal Microsoft OneDrive and upload, delete, list files, and more.
[Microsoft SharePoint](app-service-logic-connector-sharepoint.md) | Connects to on-premises Microsoft SharePoint Server or SharePoint Online to manage documents, and list items. Different authentication methods such as default credentials, OAuth 2.0, Windows authentication, and Form-Based authentication are supported.
[Microsoft SQL Server](app-service-logic-connector-sql.md) | Connects to on-premises SQL Server or an Azure SQL Database. You can create, update, get, and delete entries on a SQL database table.
[Microsoft Yammer](app-service-logic-connector-yammer.md) | Connects to Yammer to post messages and get new messages.
[POP3](app-service-logic-connector-pop3.md) (Post Office Protocol)| Connect to a POP3 server to retrieve emails with attachments.
[QuickBooks](app-service-logic-connector-quickbooks.md) | You can  complete different tasks including create, update, and query different entities from Intuit QuickBooks like customers, items, invoices, and so on.
[SFTP](app-service-logic-connector-sftp.md) (SSH File Transfer Protocol)| Connects to SFTP and can upload, get, delete files, and more.
[SMTP](app-service-logic-connector-smtp.md) (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) | Connects to a SMTP server and can send email with attachments.
[Slack](app-service-logic-connector-slack.md) | Connect to Slack and post messages to Slack channels.
[Salesforce](app-service-logic-connector-salesforce.md) | Connect to your Salesforce account and manage  accounts, leads, opportunities, and more.
[SugarCRM](app-service-logic-connector-sugarcrm.md) | Connects to SugarCRM Online and create, update, read, and more with different types of modules, including accounts, contacts, and so on.
[Twilio](app-service-logic-connector-twilio.md) | Connects to Twilio and can send and get messages, get available numbers, managing incoming phone numbers, and more.
[Twitter](app-service-logic-connector-twitter.md) | Connects to Twitter and get timelines, post tweets, and more.
[Wait](app-service-logic-connector-wait.md) | Use this connector to delay the execution of your app. You can delay the app for a specific duration or until an occurrence at a specific time.


## Premium Connectors
The following table lists all the available Connectors and API Apps created by Microsoft available in Premium Connectors:

Name  | Description
------------- | -------------
[AS2 Connector](app-service-logic-connector-as2.md) | Can receive and send messages using the AS2 transport protocol. Data is transported securely and reliably using digital certificates and encryption.
[BizTalk EDIFACT](app-service-logic-connector-edifact.md) | Receives and sends messages using the EDIFACT protocol in business-to-business communications.
[BizTalk X12](app-service-logic-connector-x12.md) | Receives and sends messages using the X12 protocol in business-to-business communications.
[BizTalk Trading Partner Management](app-service-logic-connector-tpm.md) | Defines and persists business-to-business relationships using partners, agreements, and schemas and certificates used in agreements. These relationships are enforced using the AS2, EDIFACT, and X12 API Apps.
[BizTalk JSON Encoder](app-service-logic-connector-jsonencoder.md) | An encoder and decoder that helps your app interop between JSON and XML data. It can convert a given JSON instance to XML and vice versa.
[BizTalk Rules](app-service-logic-use-biztalk-rules.md) | Use BizTalk Rules to define and control the business logic within an organization. Business policies can be updated without recompiling or without redeploying the associated applications.
DB2 Connector | Connects to an IBM DB2 database on-premises and on an Azure virtual machine running a Windows operating system. Can map Web API and OData API operations to Informix Structured Query Language commands. <br/><br/>No triggers. Actions include table select, insert, update, delete, and custom statement<br/><br/>This connector also includes the Microsoft Client for DRDA to connect to an Informix server across a TCP/IP network.
Informix | Connects to an IBM Informix database, on-premises and on an Azure virtual machine running a Windows operating system. Can map Web API and OData API operations to Informix Structured Query Language commands.<br/><br/>No triggers. Actions include table select, insert, update, delete, and custom statement.<br/><br/>When using on-premises, VPN or Azure ExpressRoute can be used. This connector also includes a Microsoft Client for DRDA to connect to an Informix server across a TCP/IP network.
MQ | Connects to IBM WebSphere MQ Server version 8, on-premises and on an Azure virtual machine running a Windows operating system. When using on-premises, VPN or Azure ExpressRoute can be used. The connector also includes the Microsoft Client for MQ.<br/><br/>No triggers. No actions.<br/><br/>**Note** Currently cannot be used with Logic Apps.
[Oracle Database](app-service-logic-connector-oracle.md) | Connects to on-premises Oracle Database and  can create, update, get, and delete entries on a database table.
[SAP](app-service-logic-connector-sap.md) | Connects to an on-premises SAP server and invokes RFCs, BAPIs and tRFCs, and send IDOCs.
[BizTalk Flat File Encoder](app-service-logic-flatfile-encoder.md) | Provides interoperability between flat file data (like excel and csv) and XML data. This API App can convert a flat file instance to XML and vice versa.
[BizTalk Transform Service](app-service-logic-transform-xml-documents.md) | Converts data from one format to another format. You can also upload an existing map (.trfm file), view the links between the source and target schemas, and use 'Test’ functionality with sample input XML content. Different built-in functions are also available, including string manipulations, conditional assignment, and more.
[BizTalk XML Validator](app-service-logic-xml-validator.md) | Validates XML data against predefined XML schemas. You can use existing schemas or generate schemas based on a flat file instance, JSON instance, or existing connectors.
[BizTalk XPath Extractor](app-service-logic-xpath-extract.md) | Looks up and extracts data from XML content based on an XPath you choose.

## Connectors as Triggers
Several connectors provide triggers for Logic Apps. These triggers are of two types:

1. Poll Triggers: These triggers poll your service at a specified frequency to check for new data. When new data is available, a new instance of your Logic App runs with the data as input. To prevent the same data from being consumed multiple times, the trigger may clean-up data that has been read and passed to the Logic App. Examples of such connectors are File, SQL, and Azure Storage.
2. Push Triggers: These triggers listen for data on an endpoint or for an event to occur. Then, trigger a new instance of a Logic App. Examples of such connectors are HTTP Listener and Twitter.

## Connectors as Actions
Connectors can also be used as actions within your Logic App. Actions are useful for looking up data within the Logic App that can then used in the execution. For example, you may need to look up data from a SQL database for additional information about a customer when processing an order. Or, you may need to write, update or delete data in a destination. You can do this using the actions provided by the connectors. Actions map to operations in API Apps (as defined by their Swagger metadata).

## Create your own Connectors and API Apps
[Connectors and API Apps Reference](http://aka.ms/appservicesconnectorreference)<br/>
[Azure App Service API app triggers](../app-service-api/app-service-api-dotnet-triggers.md)<br/>
[Logic App Reference](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/azure/dn948510.aspx)


## More on Connectors and API Apps

[What are Connectors and BizTalk API Apps](app-service-logic-what-are-biztalk-api-apps.md)<br/>
[Using the Hybrid Connection Manager in Azure App Service](app-service-logic-hybrid-connection-manager.md)<br/>
[Manage and Monitor your built-in API Apps and Connectors](app-service-logic-monitor-your-connectors.md)

Commit message:

New OAUTH topic, updating connector topics

articles/app-service-logic/app-service-logic-connectors-list.md, after:

<properties
	pageTitle="List of Connectors and API Apps | Azure"
	description="Read about the Connectors and API Apps in Azure App Service; microservices architecture"
	services="app-service\logic"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="MandiOhlinger"
	manager="dwrede"
	editor="cgronlun"/>

<tags
	ms.service="app-service-logic"
	ms.workload="integration"
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
	ms.devlang="na"
	ms.topic="article"
	ms.date="08/09/2015"
	ms.author="mandia"/>


# Connectors and API Apps List in Microsoft Azure App Service
This topic lists all the available connectors and API Apps created by Microsoft.

For pricing information and a list of what is included with each Service Tier, see [Azure App Service Pricing](http://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/app-service/).


## Standard Connectors
The following table lists all the available connectors and API Apps created by Microsoft that are available with the Standard Connectors:

Name | Description
--- | ---
[Azure HDInsight](app-service-logic-connector-hdinsight.md) | Use this connector to create a Hadoop cluster on Azure, submit different Hadoop jobs, and more.
[Azure Service Bus](app-service-logic-connector-azureservicebus.md) | Can send messages from Service Bus Queues and Topics and receive messages from Service Bus Queues and Subscriptions.
[Azure Storage Blob](app-service-logic-connector-azurestorageblob.md) | Connects to Blob storage and can get, delete, list, and more. 
[Box](app-service-logic-connector-box.md) | Connects to Box and can upload, get, delete, list, and more file tasks.
[Chatter](app-service-logic-connector-chatter.md) | Connects to Chatter and can post messages, search, and even retrieve new messages.
[Dropbox](app-service-logic-connector-dropbox.md) | Connect to Dropbox and can get, delete,  list, and more file tasks.
[Facebook](app-service-logic-connector-facebook.md) | Connect to Facebook and can publish messages, pictures, and more. You can also get messages and comments, get user information about different likes, including books and movies.
[File](app-service-logic-connector-file.md) | Using this connector, you can connect to the on-premises file system or network and complete different file tasks, including uploading, deleting, listing files, and more.
[FTP<br/>FTPS](app-service-logic-connector-ftp.md) | Connects to an FTP / FTPS server and   do different FTP tasks, including uploading, getting, deleting files, and more.
[HTTP](app-service-logic-connector-http.md) | The HTTP Listener opens an endpoint that acts as an HTTP server and listens to incoming HTTP or HTTPS requests. The HTTP action doesn't require an API App and is supported natively within Logic Apps.
[Microsoft Office 365](app-service-logic-connector-office365.md) | The Office 365 Connector can send and receive emails, manage your calendar, and manage your contacts using your Office 365 account.
[Microsoft OneDrive](app-service-logic-connector-onedrive.md) | Connects to your personal Microsoft OneDrive and upload, delete, list files, and more.
[Microsoft SharePoint](app-service-logic-connector-sharepoint.md) | Connects to on-premises Microsoft SharePoint Server or SharePoint Online to manage documents, and list items. Different authentication methods such as default credentials, OAuth 2.0, Windows authentication, and Form-Based authentication are supported.
[Microsoft SQL Server](app-service-logic-connector-sql.md) | Connects to on-premises SQL Server or an Azure SQL Database. You can create, update, get, and delete entries on a SQL database table.
[Microsoft Yammer](app-service-logic-connector-yammer.md) | Connects to Yammer to post messages and get new messages.
[POP3](app-service-logic-connector-pop3.md) (Post Office Protocol)| Connect to a POP3 server to retrieve emails with attachments.
[QuickBooks](app-service-logic-connector-quickbooks.md) | You can  complete different tasks including create, update, and query different entities from Intuit QuickBooks like customers, items, invoices, and so on.
[SFTP](app-service-logic-connector-sftp.md) (SSH File Transfer Protocol)| Connects to SFTP and can upload, get, delete files, and more.
[SMTP](app-service-logic-connector-smtp.md) (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) | Connects to a SMTP server and can send email with attachments.
[Slack](app-service-logic-connector-slack.md) | Connect to Slack and post messages to Slack channels.
[Salesforce](app-service-logic-connector-salesforce.md) | Connect to your Salesforce account and manage  accounts, leads, opportunities, and more.
[SugarCRM](app-service-logic-connector-sugarcrm.md) | Connects to SugarCRM Online and create, update, read, and more with different types of modules, including accounts, contacts, and so on.
[Twilio](app-service-logic-connector-twilio.md) | Connects to Twilio and can send and get messages, get available numbers, managing incoming phone numbers, and more.
[Twitter](app-service-logic-connector-twitter.md) | Connects to Twitter and get timelines, post tweets, and more.
[Wait](app-service-logic-connector-wait.md) | Use this connector to delay the execution of your app. You can delay the app for a specific duration or until an occurrence at a specific time.


## Premium Connectors
The following table lists all the available Connectors and API Apps created by Microsoft available in Premium Connectors:

Name  | Description
------------- | -------------
[AS2 Connector](app-service-logic-connector-as2.md) | Can receive and send messages using the AS2 transport protocol. Data is transported securely and reliably using digital certificates and encryption.
[BizTalk EDIFACT](app-service-logic-connector-edifact.md) | Receives and sends messages using the EDIFACT protocol in business-to-business communications.
[BizTalk X12](app-service-logic-connector-x12.md) | Receives and sends messages using the X12 protocol in business-to-business communications.
[BizTalk Trading Partner Management](app-service-logic-connector-tpm.md) | Defines and persists business-to-business relationships using partners, agreements, and schemas and certificates used in agreements. These relationships are enforced using the AS2, EDIFACT, and X12 API Apps.
[BizTalk JSON Encoder](app-service-logic-connector-jsonencoder.md) | An encoder and decoder that helps your app interop between JSON and XML data. It can convert a given JSON instance to XML and vice versa.
[BizTalk Rules](app-service-logic-use-biztalk-rules.md) | Use BizTalk Rules to define and control the business logic within an organization. Business policies can be updated without recompiling or without redeploying the associated applications.
DB2 Connector | Connects to an IBM DB2 database on-premises and on an Azure virtual machine running a Windows operating system. Can map Web API and OData API operations to Informix Structured Query Language commands. <br/><br/>No triggers. Actions include table select, insert, update, delete, and custom statement<br/><br/>This connector also includes the Microsoft Client for DRDA to connect to an Informix server across a TCP/IP network.
Informix | Connects to an IBM Informix database, on-premises and on an Azure virtual machine running a Windows operating system. Can map Web API and OData API operations to Informix Structured Query Language commands.<br/><br/>No triggers. Actions include table select, insert, update, delete, and custom statement.<br/><br/>When using on-premises, VPN or Azure ExpressRoute can be used. This connector also includes a Microsoft Client for DRDA to connect to an Informix server across a TCP/IP network.
MQ | Connects to IBM WebSphere MQ Server version 8, on-premises and on an Azure virtual machine running a Windows operating system. When using on-premises, VPN or Azure ExpressRoute can be used. The connector also includes the Microsoft Client for MQ.<br/><br/>No triggers. No actions.<br/><br/>**Note** Currently cannot be used with Logic Apps.
[Oracle Database](app-service-logic-connector-oracle.md) | Connects to on-premises Oracle Database and  can create, update, get, and delete entries on a database table.
[SAP](app-service-logic-connector-sap.md) | Connects to an on-premises SAP server and invokes RFCs, BAPIs and tRFCs, and send IDOCs.
[BizTalk Flat File Encoder](app-service-logic-flatfile-encoder.md) | Provides interoperability between flat file data (like excel and csv) and XML data. This API App can convert a flat file instance to XML and vice versa.
[BizTalk Transform Service](app-service-logic-transform-xml-documents.md) | Converts data from one format to another format. You can also upload an existing map (.trfm file), view the links between the source and target schemas, and use 'Test’ functionality with sample input XML content. Different built-in functions are also available, including string manipulations, conditional assignment, and more.
[BizTalk XML Validator](app-service-logic-xml-validator.md) | Validates XML data against predefined XML schemas. You can use existing schemas or generate schemas based on a flat file instance, JSON instance, or existing connectors.
[BizTalk XPath Extractor](app-service-logic-xpath-extract.md) | Looks up and extracts data from XML content based on an XPath you choose.

## Connectors as Triggers
Several connectors provide triggers for Logic Apps. These triggers are of two types:

1. Poll Triggers: These triggers poll your service at a specified frequency to check for new data. When new data is available, a new instance of your Logic App runs with the data as input. To prevent the same data from being consumed multiple times, the trigger may clean-up data that has been read and passed to the Logic App. Examples of such connectors are File, SQL, and Azure Storage.
2. Push Triggers: These triggers listen for data on an endpoint or for an event to occur. Then, trigger a new instance of a Logic App. Examples of such connectors are HTTP Listener and Twitter.

## Connectors as Actions
Connectors can also be used as actions within your Logic App. Actions are useful for looking up data within the Logic App that can then used in the execution. For example, you may need to look up data from a SQL database for additional information about a customer when processing an order. Or, you may need to write, update or delete data in a destination. You can do this using the actions provided by the connectors. Actions map to operations in API Apps (as defined by their Swagger metadata).

## Learn about OAuth Security
Many of the Software as a Service (SaaS) connectors like Facebook, Twitter, DropBox, and so on require users to authorize using the OAUTH protocol.  When you use these SaaS Connectors from Logic Apps, we provide a simplified user experience where you click "Authorize" in the Logic Apps designer. When you "Authorize", you are asked to sign in (if not already) and provide consent to connect to the SaaS service on your behalf. When you do provide consent and authorize, your Logic Apps can then access these SaaS services on your behalf.

This simplified experience is possible because we previously created and registered our application in these SaaS services.  In certain cases, you may want to register and use your own application.  This is necessary, for instance, when you want to use these SaaS connectors in your custom applications.  The steps to do this are listed at [Deploy a SaaS connector API app](app-service-api-connnect-your-app-to-saas-connector.md). This example uses the DropBox Connector, but the process is the same for all connectors that rely on OAUTH.

Even in the context of Logic Apps, you can use your own application instead of using the default application that we provide. You might want to do this, because of multiple reasons (not listed here).  The following steps illustrate how you can do this for the Twitter Connector.

1. Go to your Twitter Connector in the Azure preview portal. Go to Browse > Api Apps > {TwitterConnector} > Settings > Authentication.
2. Go to [Twitter](http://apps.twitter.com) and Create a New App.  Enter the value of “Callback URL” from “Redirect URI” value as shown above.
3. When your Twitter app is created, select **Key and Access Tokens** to see the keys/secret.
4. Copy these values and put them in your Twitter Connector setting as given below:  
Client ID > Consumer Key (API Key)  
Client Secret > Consumer Secret (API Secret)
5. Save your connector settings.  


Now, you should be able to use your Connector from Logic Apps. Now, when you use this Connector from Logic Apps, it will use your application, instead of the default application.  NOTE: If you have authorized an app previously, you may have to reauthorize the app.


## Create your own Connectors and API Apps
[Connectors and API Apps Reference](http://aka.ms/appservicesconnectorreference)<br/>
[Azure App Service API app triggers](../app-service-api/app-service-api-dotnet-triggers.md)<br/>
[Logic App Reference](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/azure/dn948510.aspx)


## More on Connectors and API Apps

[What are Connectors and BizTalk API Apps](app-service-logic-what-are-biztalk-api-apps.md)<br/>
[Using the Hybrid Connection Manager in Azure App Service](app-service-logic-hybrid-connection-manager.md)<br/>
[Manage and Monitor your built-in API Apps and Connectors](app-service-logic-monitor-your-connectors.md)
