articles/app-service-logic/app-service-logic-connector-twitter.md, before:

<properties
   pageTitle="Using the Twitter Connector in Logic Apps | Microsoft Azure App Service"
   description="How to create and configure the Twitter Connector or API app and use it in a logic app in Azure App Service"
   services="app-service\logic"
   documentationCenter=".net,nodejs,java"
   authors="anuragdalmia"
   manager="dwrede"
   editor=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="app-service-logic"
   ms.devlang="multiple"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
   ms.workload="integration"
   ms.date="08/23/2015"
   ms.author="sameerch"/>


# Get started with the Twitter Connector and add it to your Logic App
Connect to your Twitter feed to post tweets and gets tweets from your timeline, your friends' timeline, and followers of your Twitter account. Connectors can be used in Logic Apps to retrieve, process, or push data as a part of a "workflow". When you use the Twitter Connector in your workflow, you can achieve a variety of scenarios. For example, you can:

- Get new tweets associated with a given keyword or text. When a new tweet is retrieved, it triggers a new instance of your workflow and passes the data to the next connector in your workflow. For example, you create a Twitter Connector and use the New Tweet From Search trigger to monitor #peanutbutterandjelly. Whenever there's a new tweet for #peanutbutterandjelly, your workflow (aka logic app) starts automatically.
- Using the different actions, like "Search Tweets", you take the response and use it within your workflow. For example, you can search tweets for your company name. When it's found, you can use a logic app to write this data into a SQL Server database. Then, use the SQL Server data to determine what is being tweeted about your company. 
- Use all the operators at [Twitter Search](https://twitter.com/search). Select the **operators** link. The Twitter connector supports all the operators listed.


## Triggers and Actions
*Triggers* are events that happen. For example, a new tweet can trigger or start a workflow or process. An *Action* is the result of something. For example, you can search for a specific tweet and when found, send an email or update a database. 

The Twitter Connector can be used as a trigger or an action in a logic app and supports data in JSON and XML formats. 

The Twitter Connector has the following Triggers and Actions available:

Triggers | Actions
--- | ---
New Tweet From Search | <ul><li>Get User Timeline</li><li>Search Tweets</li><li>Tweet</li><li>Get Mentions Timeline</li><li>Get Home Timeline</li><li>Get Followers</li><li>Get Friends</li><li>Get User Details</li><li>Tweet to User</li><li>Send Direct Message</li></ul>

The **New Tweet** trigger has been archived. Currently, it is still available as an Advanced operation and can be used. The **Retweet** action is removed and no longer supported. If you use the Retweet action, it fails at runtime. As a result, remove the Retweet action from your logics apps. 


## Create the Twitter connector

> [AZURE.IMPORTANT] Creating a Twitter Connector currently requires registration of an API App with Twitter.  You can register an application for free at [http://apps.twitter.com](http://apps.twitter.com).  You will need the Twitter API Key and Secret to create a connector.

A connector can be created within a logic app or be created directly from the Azure Marketplace. To create a connector from the Marketplace:

1. Create a free application for Twitter at [http://apps.twitter.com](http://apps.twitter.com).
    * When registering for the app, you can put in any URL for the website, and leave the callback URL blank.
2. In the Azure startboard, select **Marketplace**.
3. Search for “Twitter Connector”, select it, and select **Create**.
4. Click on 'Package Settings' and paste the 'Consumer Key' from your Twitter App into the 'clientId' field.  Paste the 'Consumer Secret' from your Twitter App into the 'clientSecret' field:  
![][10]
5. Enter other required settings around connector Name, App Service, and Resource Group.
6.	Click **Create**.

> [AZURE.NOTE] If you want to further secure your Twitter API with the redirect URL, you can see details on how to do that [here](app-service-logic-oauth-security.md)


## Using the Twitter Connector in your Logic App
Once your API app is created, you can now use the Twitter connector as a trigger or action for your Logic Apps. To do this:

1.	Create a new Logic App or open an existing Logic App:  
![][2]
2.	Open **Triggers and Actions** to open the Logic Apps designer:  
![][3]
3.	The Twitter connector is listed on the right hand side. Select it to automatically add it to your logic app:  
![][4]
4.	Select **Authorize**, enter your Twitter credentials, and select **Authorize app**:  
![][5]


You can now configure the Twitter connector to build your workflow. You can use the Tweets retrieved from the Twitter trigger in other actions in the flow:  
![][6]

In the similar way, you can use the Twitter actions in your workflow. Select a Twitter action and configure the inputs for that action:  
![][7]  
![][8]

## Do more with your Connector
Now that the connector is created, you can add it to a business workflow using a Logic App. See [What are Logic Apps?](app-service-logic-what-are-logic-apps.md).

>[AZURE.NOTE] If you want to get started with Azure Logic Apps before signing up for an Azure account, go to [Try Logic App](https://tryappservice.azure.com/?appservice=logic), where you can immediately create a short-lived starter logic app in App Service. No credit cards required; no commitments.

View the Swagger REST API reference at [Connectors and API Apps Reference](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=529766).

You can also review performance statistics and control security to the connector. See [Manage and Monitor your built-in API Apps and Connectors](app-service-logic-monitor-your-connectors.md).

<!--Image references-->
[1]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/img1.png
[2]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/img2.png
[3]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/img3.png
[4]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/img4.png
[5]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/img5.png
[6]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/triggers.png
[7]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/img7.png
[8]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/actions.png
[9]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/settings.PNG
[10]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/TwitterAPISettings.png

Commit message:

Update app registration requirement for Twitter Connector.
App Registration is an optional step now.  Also, it looks like we need to specify a callback URL and cannot leave it blank.

articles/app-service-logic/app-service-logic-connector-twitter.md, after:

<properties
   pageTitle="Using the Twitter Connector in Logic Apps | Microsoft Azure App Service"
   description="How to create and configure the Twitter Connector or API app and use it in a logic app in Azure App Service"
   services="app-service\logic"
   documentationCenter=".net,nodejs,java"
   authors="anuragdalmia"
   manager="dwrede"
   editor=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="app-service-logic"
   ms.devlang="multiple"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
   ms.workload="integration"
   ms.date="08/23/2015"
   ms.author="sameerch"/>


# Get started with the Twitter Connector and add it to your Logic App
Connect to your Twitter feed to post tweets and gets tweets from your timeline, your friends' timeline, and followers of your Twitter account. Connectors can be used in Logic Apps to retrieve, process, or push data as a part of a "workflow". When you use the Twitter Connector in your workflow, you can achieve a variety of scenarios. For example, you can:

- Get new tweets associated with a given keyword or text. When a new tweet is retrieved, it triggers a new instance of your workflow and passes the data to the next connector in your workflow. For example, you create a Twitter Connector and use the New Tweet From Search trigger to monitor #peanutbutterandjelly. Whenever there's a new tweet for #peanutbutterandjelly, your workflow (aka logic app) starts automatically.
- Using the different actions, like "Search Tweets", you take the response and use it within your workflow. For example, you can search tweets for your company name. When it's found, you can use a logic app to write this data into a SQL Server database. Then, use the SQL Server data to determine what is being tweeted about your company. 
- Use all the operators at [Twitter Search](https://twitter.com/search). Select the **operators** link. The Twitter connector supports all the operators listed.


## Triggers and Actions
*Triggers* are events that happen. For example, a new tweet can trigger or start a workflow or process. An *Action* is the result of something. For example, you can search for a specific tweet and when found, send an email or update a database. 

The Twitter Connector can be used as a trigger or an action in a logic app and supports data in JSON and XML formats. 

The Twitter Connector has the following Triggers and Actions available:

Triggers | Actions
--- | ---
New Tweet From Search | <ul><li>Get User Timeline</li><li>Search Tweets</li><li>Tweet</li><li>Get Mentions Timeline</li><li>Get Home Timeline</li><li>Get Followers</li><li>Get Friends</li><li>Get User Details</li><li>Tweet to User</li><li>Send Direct Message</li></ul>

The **New Tweet** trigger has been archived. Currently, it is still available as an Advanced operation and can be used. The **Retweet** action is removed and no longer supported. If you use the Retweet action, it fails at runtime. As a result, remove the Retweet action from your logics apps. 


## Create the Twitter connector

> [AZURE.IMPORTANT] WHile creating a Twitter Connector, you could choose to register your own App with Twitter and use the app keys with the Twitter Connector.  You can register an application for free at [http://apps.twitter.com](http://apps.twitter.com).  While registering, make sure that you do provide some callback URL.  You could change the callback URL later once your Twitter Connector is created.  You will need the Twitter API Key and Secret to create a connector.

A connector can be created within a logic app or be created directly from the Azure Marketplace. To create a connector from the Marketplace:

1. [Optional] Create a free application for Twitter at [http://apps.twitter.com](http://apps.twitter.com).
    * When registering for the app, you can put in any URL for the website.  Specify any callback URL (do not leave it blank), you can update it later.
2. In the Azure startboard, select **Marketplace**.
3. Search for “Twitter Connector”, select it, and select **Create**.
4. [Optional] Click on 'Package Settings' and paste the 'Consumer Key' from your Twitter App into the 'clientId' field.  Paste the 'Consumer Secret' from your Twitter App into the 'clientSecret' field:  
![][10]
5. Enter other required settings around connector Name, App Service, and Resource Group.
6.	Click **Create**.

> [AZURE.NOTE] If you want to further secure your Twitter API with the redirect URL, you can see details on how to do that [here](app-service-logic-oauth-security.md)


## Using the Twitter Connector in your Logic App
Once your API app is created, you can now use the Twitter connector as a trigger or action for your Logic Apps. To do this:

1.	Create a new Logic App or open an existing Logic App:  
![][2]
2.	Open **Triggers and Actions** to open the Logic Apps designer:  
![][3]
3.	The Twitter connector is listed on the right hand side. Select it to automatically add it to your logic app:  
![][4]
4.	Select **Authorize**, enter your Twitter credentials, and select **Authorize app**:  
![][5]


You can now configure the Twitter connector to build your workflow. You can use the Tweets retrieved from the Twitter trigger in other actions in the flow:  
![][6]

In the similar way, you can use the Twitter actions in your workflow. Select a Twitter action and configure the inputs for that action:  
![][7]  
![][8]

## Do more with your Connector
Now that the connector is created, you can add it to a business workflow using a Logic App. See [What are Logic Apps?](app-service-logic-what-are-logic-apps.md).

>[AZURE.NOTE] If you want to get started with Azure Logic Apps before signing up for an Azure account, go to [Try Logic App](https://tryappservice.azure.com/?appservice=logic), where you can immediately create a short-lived starter logic app in App Service. No credit cards required; no commitments.

View the Swagger REST API reference at [Connectors and API Apps Reference](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=529766).

You can also review performance statistics and control security to the connector. See [Manage and Monitor your built-in API Apps and Connectors](app-service-logic-monitor-your-connectors.md).

<!--Image references-->
[1]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/img1.png
[2]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/img2.png
[3]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/img3.png
[4]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/img4.png
[5]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/img5.png
[6]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/triggers.png
[7]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/img7.png
[8]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/actions.png
[9]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/settings.PNG
[10]: ./media/app-service-logic-connector-twitter/TwitterAPISettings.png
