# Staging an Application in Windows Azure

A packaged application can be deployed to the staging environment in
Windows Azure to be tested before you move it to the production
environment in which the application is accessible on the Internet. The
staging environment is exactly like the production environment, except
that you can only access the staged application with an obfuscated URL
that is generated by Windows Azure. After you have verified that your
application is working correctly, it can be deployed to the production
environment by performing a Virtual IP (VIP) swap.

This task includes the following steps:

-   [Step 1: Stage an Application by Using the Management Portal][]
-   [Step 1 (Alternate): Stage an Application with Visual Studio][]
-   [Step 2: Deploy an Application to Production by Swapping VIPs][]

<a name="step1"> </a>

## Step 1: Stage an Application by Using the Management Portal

This task covers how to stage an application by using the Windows Azure
Management Portal. You can also [Stage an Application with Visual
Studio][Step 1 (Alternate): Stage an Application with Visual Studio].

1.  Log on to the [Windows Azure Management Portal][].

2.  In the Management Portal, click **New Hosted Service**.

    ![][]

3.  In the Create a New Hosted Service dialog, fill in the required
    information and select **Deploy to stage environment** under
    **Deployment options**.

    ![][1]

4.  Click **OK** to create the hosted service.

5.  After the hosted service is created and the deployment's status has
    been updated to **Ready**, click on the deployment and note the
    values in the **Properties** pane to the right. The DNS name is an
    obfuscated internal ID that Windows Azure generated. Also, the
    environment is set to **Staging**.

    ![][2]

Now you can verify that the application is working correctly in the
staging environment.

For an upgrade scenario, in which the staged application is an upgraded
version of one that has already been deployed to production, you can
[upgrade the application in the production environment by swapping the
VIPs][Step 2: Deploy an Application to Production by Swapping VIPs].

<a name="step2"> </a>

## Step 1 (Alternate): Stage an Application with Visual Studio

This task covers how to stage an application with Visual Studio. You can
also [Stage an Application with the Management Portal][Step 1: Stage an
Application by Using the Management Portal].

**Note:** This step requires Visual Studio 2010 and the Windows Azure
SDK for .NET.

1.  Start Visual Studio 2010 and open a cloud project that's ready for
    deployment.

2.  In the Solution Explorer, right-click the name of your project, and
    click **Publish**. The Publish Windows Azure Application wizard
    appears.

3.  In the Windows Azure Publish Sign In page, select the named
    authentication credentials you want to use, and then click **Next**.
    For more information, see [Setting Up Named Authentication
    Credentials.][]

4.  In Windows Azure Publish Settings, select hosted service in which to
    publish the application, and then in Environment, select
    **Staging**.

    ![][3]

5.  Use the defaults for the rest of the settings and click **Next**.

6.  In Windows Azure Publish Summary, review the settings (make sure
    Environment is set to Staging), and then click **Publish**.

Visual Studio starts the publishing process of packaging the application
and then deploying it to Windows Azure. After several minutes, the
deployment is completed.

Now you can verify that the application is working correctly in the
staging environment.

For an upgrade scenario, in which the staged application is an upgraded
version of one that has already been deployed to production, you can
[upgrade the application in the production environment by swapping the
VIPs][Step 2: Deploy an Application to Production by Swapping VIPs].

<a name="step3"> </a>

## Step 2: Upgrade an Application in Production by Swapping VIPs

After you have verified the upgraded version of an application in the
staging environment, you can quickly make it available in production by
swapping the virtual IPs (VIPs) of the staging and production
environments.

**Note:** This step assumes that you have already deployed an
application to production and staged the upgraded version of the
application.

1.  Log into the [Management Portal][Windows Azure Management Portal],
    click **Hosted Services, Storage Accounts, & CDN**, and click
    **Hosted Services**.

2.  Expand the hosted service that contains the deployment that you want
    to upgrade, and then click **Swap VIP**. This opens the Swap VIPs
    dialog.

    ![][4]

3.  Review the information, and then click **OK**. The two deployments
    begin updating as the staging deployment switches to production and
    the production deployment switches to staging.

You have successfully staged a deployment and upgraded a production
deployment by swapping VIPs with the deployment in staging.

## Additional Resources

[How to Deploy a Service Upgrade to Production by Swapping VIPs in
Windows Azure][]

[Overview of Managing Deployments in Windows Azure][]

[Publishing Applications to Windows Azure from Visual Studio][]

  [Step 1: Stage an Application by Using the Management Portal]: #step1
  [Step 1 (Alternate): Stage an Application with Visual Studio]: #step2
  [Step 2: Deploy an Application to Production by Swapping VIPs]: #step3
  [Windows Azure Management Portal]: http://windows.azure.com
  []: ../../../DevCenter/Shared/Media/staging-01.png
  [1]: ../../../DevCenter/Shared/Media/staging-02.png
  [2]: ../../../DevCenter/Shared/Media/staging-03.png
  [Setting Up Named Authentication Credentials.]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windowsazure/ff683676.aspx
  [3]: ../../../DevCenter/Shared/Media/staging-04.png
  [4]: ../../../DevCenter/Shared/Media/staging-05.png
  [How to Deploy a Service Upgrade to Production by Swapping VIPs in
  Windows Azure]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windowsazure/ee517253.aspx
  [Overview of Managing Deployments in Windows Azure]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windowsazure/hh386336.aspx
  [Publishing Applications to Windows Azure from Visual Studio]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windowsazure/ee460772.aspx
