articles/cosmos-db/create-mongodb-nodejs.md, before:

---
title: Connect a MongoDB app to Azure Cosmos DB by using Node.js | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how to connect an existing Node.js MongoDB app to Azure Cosmos DB
services: cosmos-db
documentationcenter: ''
author: mimig1
manager: jhubbard
editor: ''

ms.assetid: 
ms.service: cosmos-db
ms.custom: quick start connect, mvc
ms.workload: 
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: nodejs
ms.topic: hero-article
ms.date: 06/02/2017
ms.author: mimig

---
# Azure Cosmos DB: Migrate an existing Node.js MongoDB web app 

Azure Cosmos DB is Microsoft’s globally distributed multi-model database service. You can quickly create and query document, key/value, and graph databases, all of which benefit from the global distribution and horizontal scale capabilities at the core of Azure Cosmos DB. 

This quickstart demonstrates how to use an existing [MongoDB](mongodb-introduction.md) app written in Node.js and connect it to your Azure Cosmos DB database, which supports MongoDB client connections. In other words, your Node.js application only knows that it's connecting to a database using MongoDB APIs. It is transparent to the application that the data is stored in Azure Cosmos DB.

When you are done, you will have a MEAN application (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, and Node.js) running on [Azure Cosmos DB](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cosmos-db/). 

![MEAN.js app running in Azure App Service](./media/create-mongodb-nodejs/meanjs-in-azure.png)

## Prerequisites 

This quickstart requires Azure CLI 2.0. You may use the Azure Cloud Shell in the browser, or [Install Azure CLI 2.0]( /cli/azure/install-azure-cli) on your own computer to run the code blocks in this tutorial.

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it](../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

In addition to Azure CLI, you need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and [Git](http://www.git-scm.com/downloads). You will run `az`, `npm`, and `git` commands.

You should have working knowledge of Node.js. This quickstart is not intended to help you with developing Node.js applications in general.

## Clone the sample application

Open a git terminal window, such as git bash, and `cd` to a working directory.  

Run the following commands to clone the sample repository. This sample repository contains the default [MEAN.js](http://meanjs.org/) application. 

```bash
git clone https://github.com/prashanthmadi/mean
```

## Run the application

Install the required packages and start the application.

```bash
cd mean
npm install
npm start
```

## Log in to Azure

If you are using the Azure Cloud Shell, click **Try It** in the code block below, follow the on-screen prompts to log in, then proceed to the next command. If you are using an installed Azure CLI, log in to your Azure subscription with the [az login](/cli/azure/#login) command and follow the on-screen directions. 

```azurecli-interactive
az login 
``` 
   
## Add the Azure Cosmos DB module

If you are using an installed Azure CLI, check to see if the `cosmosdb` component is already installed by running the `az` command. If `cosmosdb` is in the list of base commands, proceed to the next command. 

If `cosmosdb` is not in the list of base commands, reinstall [Azure CLI 2.0]( /cli/azure/install-azure-cli).

## Create a resource group

Create a [resource group](../azure-resource-manager/resource-group-overview.md) with the [az group create](/cli/azure/group#create). An Azure resource group is a logical container into which Azure resources like web apps, databases and storage accounts are deployed and managed. 

The following example creates a resource group in the West Europe region. Choose a unique name for the resource group.

```azurecli-interactive
az group create --name myResourceGroup --location "West Europe"
```

## Create an Azure Cosmos DB account

Create an Azure Cosmos DB account with the [az cosmosdb create](/cli/azure/cosmosdb#create) command.

In the following command, please substitute your own unique Azure Cosmos DB account name where you see the `<cosmosdb_name>` placeholder. This unique name will be used as part of your Azure Cosmos DB endpoint (`https://<cosmosdb_name>.documents.azure.com/`), so the name needs to be unique across all Azure Cosmos DB accounts in Azure. 

```azurecli-interactive
az cosmosdb create --name <cosmosdb_name> --resource-group myResourceGroup --kind MongoDB
```

The `--kind MongoDB` parameter enables MongoDB client connections.

When the Azure Cosmos DB account is created, the Azure CLI shows information similar to the following example. 

```json
{
  "databaseAccountOfferType": "Standard",
  "documentEndpoint": "https://<cosmosdb_name>.documents.azure.com:443/",
  "id": "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Document
DB/databaseAccounts/<cosmosdb_name>",
  "kind": "MongoDB",
  "location": "West Europe",
  "name": "<cosmosdb_name>",
  "readLocations": [
    {
      "documentEndpoint": "https://<cosmosdb_name>-westeurope.documents.azure.com:443/",
      "failoverPriority": 0,
      "id": "<cosmosdb_name>-westeurope",
      "locationName": "West Europe",
      "provisioningState": "Succeeded"
    }
  ],
  "resourceGroup": "myResourceGroup",
  "type": "Microsoft.DocumentDB/databaseAccounts",
  "writeLocations": [
    {
      "documentEndpoint": "https://<cosmosdb_name>-westeurope.documents.azure.com:443/",
      "failoverPriority": 0,
      "id": "<cosmosdb_name>-westeurope",
      "locationName": "West Europe",
      "provisioningState": "Succeeded"
    }
  ]
} 
```

## Connect your Node.js application to the database

In this step, you connect your MEAN.js sample application to an Azure Cosmos DB database you just created, using a MongoDB connection string. 

## Retrieve the key

In order to connect to an Azure Cosmos DB database, you need the database key. Use the [az cosmosdb list-keys](/cli/azure/cosmosdb#list-keys) command to retrieve the primary key.

```azurecli-interactive
az cosmosdb list-keys --name <cosmosdb_name> --resource-group myResourceGroup
```

The Azure CLI outputs information similar to the following example. 

```json
{
  "primaryMasterKey": "RUayjYjixJDWG5xTqIiXjC...",
  "primaryReadonlyMasterKey": "...",
  "secondaryMasterKey": "...",
  "secondaryReadonlyMasterKey": "..."
}
```

Copy the value of `primaryMasterKey` to a text editor. You need this information in the next step.

<a name="devconfig"></a>
## Configure the connection string in your Node.js application

In your MEAN.js repository, open `config/env/local-development.js`.

Replace the content of this file with the following code. Be sure to also replace the two `<cosmosdb_name>` placeholders with your Azure Cosmos DB account name, and the `<primary_master_key>` placeholder with the key you copied in the previous step.

```javascript
'use strict';

module.exports = {
  db: {
    uri: 'mongodb://<cosmosdb_name>:<primary_master_key>@<cosmosdb_name>.documents.azure.com:10250/mean-dev?ssl=true&sslverifycertificate=false'
  }
};
```

> [!NOTE] 
> The `ssl=true` option is important because [Azure Cosmos DB requires SSL](connect-mongodb-account.md#connection-string-requirements). 
>
>

Save your changes.

### Run the application again.

Run `npm start` again. 

```bash
npm start
```

A console message should now tell you that the development environment is up and running. 

Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in a browser. Click **Sign Up** in the top menu and try to create two dummy users. 

The MEAN.js sample application stores user data in the database. If you are successful and MEAN.js automatically signs into the created user, then your Azure Cosmos DB connection is working. 

![MEAN.js connects successfully to MongoDB](./media/create-mongodb-nodejs/mongodb-connect-success.png)

## View data in Data Explorer

Data stored by an Azure Cosmos DB is available to view, query, and run business-logic on in the Azure portal.

To view, query, and work with the user data created in the previous step, login to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) in your web browser.

In the top Search box, type Azure Cosmos DB. When your Cosmos DB account blade opens, select your Cosmos DB account. In the left navigation, click Data Explorer. Expand your collection in the Collections pane, and then you can view the documents in the collection, query the data, and even create and run stored procedures, triggers, and UDFs. 

![Data Explorer in the Azure portal](./media/create-mongodb-nodejs/cosmosdb-connect-mongodb-data-explorer.png)


## Deploy the Node.js application to Azure

In this step, you deploy your MongoDB-connected Node.js application to Azure Cosmos DB.

You may have noticed that the configuration file that you changed earlier is for the development environment (`/config/env/local-development.js`). When you deploy your application to App Service, it will run in the production environment by default. So now, you need to make the same change to the respective configuration file.

In your MEAN.js repository, open `config/env/production.js`.

In the `db` object, replace the value of `uri` as show in the following example. Be sure to replace the placeholders as before.

```javascript
'mongodb://<cosmosdb_name>:<primary_master_key>@<cosmosdb_name>.documents.azure.com:10250/mean?ssl=true&sslverifycertificate=false',
```

In the terminal, commit all your changes into Git. You can copy both commands to run them together.

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "configured MongoDB connection string"
```
## Clean up resources

If you're not going to continue to use this app, delete all resources created by this quickstart in the Azure portal with the following steps:

1. From the left-hand menu in the Azure portal, click **Resource groups** and then click the name of the resource you created. 
2. On your resource group page, click **Delete**, type the name of the resource to delete in the text box, and then click **Delete**.

## Next steps

In this quickstart, you've learned how to create an Azure Cosmos DB account and create a MongoDB collection using the Data Explorer. You can now migrate your MongoDB data to Azure Cosmos DB.  

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Import MongoDB data into Azure Cosmos DB](mongodb-migrate.md)

Commit message:

Cosmos DB: Corrected use of azurecli-interactive
Removed usage from the login command

articles/cosmos-db/create-mongodb-nodejs.md, after:

---
title: Connect a MongoDB app to Azure Cosmos DB by using Node.js | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how to connect an existing Node.js MongoDB app to Azure Cosmos DB
services: cosmos-db
documentationcenter: ''
author: mimig1
manager: jhubbard
editor: ''

ms.assetid: 
ms.service: cosmos-db
ms.custom: quick start connect, mvc
ms.workload: 
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: nodejs
ms.topic: hero-article
ms.date: 06/02/2017
ms.author: mimig

---
# Azure Cosmos DB: Migrate an existing Node.js MongoDB web app 

Azure Cosmos DB is Microsoft’s globally distributed multi-model database service. You can quickly create and query document, key/value, and graph databases, all of which benefit from the global distribution and horizontal scale capabilities at the core of Azure Cosmos DB. 

This quickstart demonstrates how to use an existing [MongoDB](mongodb-introduction.md) app written in Node.js and connect it to your Azure Cosmos DB database, which supports MongoDB client connections. In other words, your Node.js application only knows that it's connecting to a database using MongoDB APIs. It is transparent to the application that the data is stored in Azure Cosmos DB.

When you are done, you will have a MEAN application (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, and Node.js) running on [Azure Cosmos DB](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cosmos-db/). 

![MEAN.js app running in Azure App Service](./media/create-mongodb-nodejs/meanjs-in-azure.png)

## Prerequisites 

This quickstart requires Azure CLI 2.0. You may use the Azure Cloud Shell in the browser, or [Install Azure CLI 2.0]( /cli/azure/install-azure-cli) on your own computer to run the code blocks in this tutorial.

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it](../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

In addition to Azure CLI, you need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and [Git](http://www.git-scm.com/downloads). You will run `az`, `npm`, and `git` commands.

You should have working knowledge of Node.js. This quickstart is not intended to help you with developing Node.js applications in general.

## Clone the sample application

Open a git terminal window, such as git bash, and `cd` to a working directory.  

Run the following commands to clone the sample repository. This sample repository contains the default [MEAN.js](http://meanjs.org/) application. 

```bash
git clone https://github.com/prashanthmadi/mean
```

## Run the application

Install the required packages and start the application.

```bash
cd mean
npm install
npm start
```

## Log in to Azure

If you are using an installed Azure CLI, log in to your Azure subscription with the [az login](/cli/azure/#login) command and follow the on-screen directions. You can skip this step if you're using the Azure Cloud Shell.

```azurecli
az login 
``` 
   
## Add the Azure Cosmos DB module

If you are using an installed Azure CLI, check to see if the `cosmosdb` component is already installed by running the `az` command. If `cosmosdb` is in the list of base commands, proceed to the next command. You can skip this step if you're using the Azure Cloud Shell.

If `cosmosdb` is not in the list of base commands, reinstall [Azure CLI 2.0]( /cli/azure/install-azure-cli).

## Create a resource group

Create a [resource group](../azure-resource-manager/resource-group-overview.md) with the [az group create](/cli/azure/group#create). An Azure resource group is a logical container into which Azure resources like web apps, databases and storage accounts are deployed and managed. 

The following example creates a resource group in the West Europe region. Choose a unique name for the resource group.

If you are using Azure Cloud Shell, click **Try it**, follow the onscreen prompts to login, then copy the command into the command prompt.

```azurecli-interactive
az group create --name myResourceGroup --location "West Europe"
```

## Create an Azure Cosmos DB account

Create an Azure Cosmos DB account with the [az cosmosdb create](/cli/azure/cosmosdb#create) command.

In the following command, please substitute your own unique Azure Cosmos DB account name where you see the `<cosmosdb_name>` placeholder. This unique name will be used as part of your Azure Cosmos DB endpoint (`https://<cosmosdb_name>.documents.azure.com/`), so the name needs to be unique across all Azure Cosmos DB accounts in Azure. 

```azurecli-interactive
az cosmosdb create --name <cosmosdb_name> --resource-group myResourceGroup --kind MongoDB
```

The `--kind MongoDB` parameter enables MongoDB client connections.

When the Azure Cosmos DB account is created, the Azure CLI shows information similar to the following example. 

```json
{
  "databaseAccountOfferType": "Standard",
  "documentEndpoint": "https://<cosmosdb_name>.documents.azure.com:443/",
  "id": "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Document
DB/databaseAccounts/<cosmosdb_name>",
  "kind": "MongoDB",
  "location": "West Europe",
  "name": "<cosmosdb_name>",
  "readLocations": [
    {
      "documentEndpoint": "https://<cosmosdb_name>-westeurope.documents.azure.com:443/",
      "failoverPriority": 0,
      "id": "<cosmosdb_name>-westeurope",
      "locationName": "West Europe",
      "provisioningState": "Succeeded"
    }
  ],
  "resourceGroup": "myResourceGroup",
  "type": "Microsoft.DocumentDB/databaseAccounts",
  "writeLocations": [
    {
      "documentEndpoint": "https://<cosmosdb_name>-westeurope.documents.azure.com:443/",
      "failoverPriority": 0,
      "id": "<cosmosdb_name>-westeurope",
      "locationName": "West Europe",
      "provisioningState": "Succeeded"
    }
  ]
} 
```

## Connect your Node.js application to the database

In this step, you connect your MEAN.js sample application to an Azure Cosmos DB database you just created, using a MongoDB connection string. 

## Retrieve the key

In order to connect to an Azure Cosmos DB database, you need the database key. Use the [az cosmosdb list-keys](/cli/azure/cosmosdb#list-keys) command to retrieve the primary key.

```azurecli-interactive
az cosmosdb list-keys --name <cosmosdb_name> --resource-group myResourceGroup
```

The Azure CLI outputs information similar to the following example. 

```json
{
  "primaryMasterKey": "RUayjYjixJDWG5xTqIiXjC...",
  "primaryReadonlyMasterKey": "...",
  "secondaryMasterKey": "...",
  "secondaryReadonlyMasterKey": "..."
}
```

Copy the value of `primaryMasterKey` to a text editor. You need this information in the next step.

<a name="devconfig"></a>
## Configure the connection string in your Node.js application

In your MEAN.js repository, open `config/env/local-development.js`.

Replace the content of this file with the following code. Be sure to also replace the two `<cosmosdb_name>` placeholders with your Azure Cosmos DB account name, and the `<primary_master_key>` placeholder with the key you copied in the previous step.

```javascript
'use strict';

module.exports = {
  db: {
    uri: 'mongodb://<cosmosdb_name>:<primary_master_key>@<cosmosdb_name>.documents.azure.com:10250/mean-dev?ssl=true&sslverifycertificate=false'
  }
};
```

> [!NOTE] 
> The `ssl=true` option is important because [Azure Cosmos DB requires SSL](connect-mongodb-account.md#connection-string-requirements). 
>
>

Save your changes.

### Run the application again.

Run `npm start` again. 

```bash
npm start
```

A console message should now tell you that the development environment is up and running. 

Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in a browser. Click **Sign Up** in the top menu and try to create two dummy users. 

The MEAN.js sample application stores user data in the database. If you are successful and MEAN.js automatically signs into the created user, then your Azure Cosmos DB connection is working. 

![MEAN.js connects successfully to MongoDB](./media/create-mongodb-nodejs/mongodb-connect-success.png)

## View data in Data Explorer

Data stored by an Azure Cosmos DB is available to view, query, and run business-logic on in the Azure portal.

To view, query, and work with the user data created in the previous step, login to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) in your web browser.

In the top Search box, type Azure Cosmos DB. When your Cosmos DB account blade opens, select your Cosmos DB account. In the left navigation, click Data Explorer. Expand your collection in the Collections pane, and then you can view the documents in the collection, query the data, and even create and run stored procedures, triggers, and UDFs. 

![Data Explorer in the Azure portal](./media/create-mongodb-nodejs/cosmosdb-connect-mongodb-data-explorer.png)


## Deploy the Node.js application to Azure

In this step, you deploy your MongoDB-connected Node.js application to Azure Cosmos DB.

You may have noticed that the configuration file that you changed earlier is for the development environment (`/config/env/local-development.js`). When you deploy your application to App Service, it will run in the production environment by default. So now, you need to make the same change to the respective configuration file.

In your MEAN.js repository, open `config/env/production.js`.

In the `db` object, replace the value of `uri` as show in the following example. Be sure to replace the placeholders as before.

```javascript
'mongodb://<cosmosdb_name>:<primary_master_key>@<cosmosdb_name>.documents.azure.com:10250/mean?ssl=true&sslverifycertificate=false',
```

In the terminal, commit all your changes into Git. You can copy both commands to run them together.

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "configured MongoDB connection string"
```
## Clean up resources

If you're not going to continue to use this app, delete all resources created by this quickstart in the Azure portal with the following steps:

1. From the left-hand menu in the Azure portal, click **Resource groups** and then click the name of the resource you created. 
2. On your resource group page, click **Delete**, type the name of the resource to delete in the text box, and then click **Delete**.

## Next steps

In this quickstart, you've learned how to create an Azure Cosmos DB account and create a MongoDB collection using the Data Explorer. You can now migrate your MongoDB data to Azure Cosmos DB.  

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Import MongoDB data into Azure Cosmos DB](mongodb-migrate.md)
