articles/machine-learning/data-science-process-walkthroughs.md, before:

<properties 
	pageTitle="Team Data Science Process walkthroughs  | Microsoft Azure" 
	description="Walkthoughs show how to combine cloud and on-premise tools and services into a workflow or pipeline to create an intelligent application." 
	services="machine-learning" 
	documentationCenter="" 
	authors="bradsev"
	manager="paulettm" 
	editor="cgronlun" />

<tags 
	ms.service="machine-learning" 
	ms.workload="data-services" 
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na" 
	ms.devlang="na" 
	ms.topic="article" 
	ms.date="06/23/2016" 
	ms.author="bradsev" /> 


# Team Data Science Process walkthroughs

The end-to-end walkthroughs itemized here each demonstrate the steps in the Team Data Science Process for **specific scenarios** and illustrate how to combine cloud, on-premise tools and services into a workflow or pipeline to create an intelligent application.

## Use SQL Data Warehouse
The [Team Data Science Process in action: using SQL Data Warehouse](machine-learning-data-science-process-sqldw-walkthrough.md) walkthrough shows you how to build and deploy machine learning classification and regression models using SQL Data Warehouse (SQL DW) for a publicly available NYC taxi trip and fare dataset.

## Use SQL Server
The [Team Data Science Process in action: using SQL Server](machine-learning-data-science-process-sql-walkthrough.md)  walkthrough shows you build and deploy machine learning classification and regression models using SQL Server and a publicly available NYC taxi trip and fare dataset.


## Use HDInsight Hadoop clusters
The [Team Data Science Process in action: using HDInsight Hadoop clusters](machine-learning-data-science-process-hive-walkthrough.md) walkthrough uses an [Azure HDInsight Hadoop cluster](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/hdinsight/) to store, explore and feature engineer data from a publicly available NYC taxi trip and fare dataset


## Use Azure HDInsight Hadoop Clusters on a 1 TB dataset
The [Team Data Science Process in action - Using Azure HDInsight Hadoop Clusters on a 1 TB dataset](machine-learning-data-science-process-hive-criteo-walkthrough.md) walkthrough presents an end-to-end scenario that uses an [Azure HDInsight Hadoop cluster](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/hdinsight/) to store, explore, feature engineer, and down sample data from one of the publicly available [Criteo](http://labs.criteo.com/downloads/download-terabyte-click-logs/) datasets.


## Use Spark on Azure HDInsight
The [Data Science using Spark on Azure HDInsight](machine-learning-data-science-spark-overview.md) walkthrough uses the Team Data Science Process in an end-to-end scenario using an [Azure HDInsight Spark cluster](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/hdinsight/) to store, explore and feature engineer data from the publicly available NYC taxi trip and fare dataset 


## Use Azure Data Lake Storage and Analytics
The [Scalable Data Science in Azure Data Lake: An end-to-end Walkthrough](machine-learning-data-science-process-data-lake-walkthrough.md) shows how to use Azure Data Lake to do data exploration and binary classification tasks on a sample of the NYC taxi trip and fare dataset to predict whether or not a tip will be paid by a fare. 

## Use R with SQL Server R Services
The [Data Science End-to-End Walkthrough using SQL Server R Services](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/mt612857.aspx)  walkthrough provides data scientists with a combination of R code, SQL Server data, and custom SQL functions to build and deploy an R model to SQL Server.

## Use T-SQL with SQL Server R Services
The [In-Database Advanced Analytics for SQL Developers](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/mt683480.aspx) walkthrough provides SQL programmers with hands-on experience building an advanced analytics solution with Transact-SQL using SQL Server R Services to operationalize an R solution.

Commit message:

adding whats next and shortening titles and item to list

articles/machine-learning/data-science-process-walkthroughs.md, after:

<properties 
	pageTitle="Team Data Science Process walkthroughs  | Microsoft Azure" 
	description="Walkthoughs show how to combine cloud and on-premise tools and services into a workflow or pipeline to create an intelligent application." 
	services="machine-learning" 
	documentationCenter="" 
	authors="bradsev"
	manager="paulettm" 
	editor="cgronlun" />

<tags 
	ms.service="machine-learning" 
	ms.workload="data-services" 
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na" 
	ms.devlang="na" 
	ms.topic="article" 
	ms.date="08/03/2016" 
	ms.author="bradsev" /> 


# Team Data Science Process walkthroughs

The end-to-end walkthroughs itemized here each demonstrate the steps in the Team Data Science Process for **specific scenarios** and illustrate how to combine cloud, on-premise tools and services into a workflow or pipeline to create an intelligent application.

## Use SQL Data Warehouse
The [Team Data Science Process in action: using SQL Data Warehouse](machine-learning-data-science-process-sqldw-walkthrough.md) walkthrough shows you how to build and deploy machine learning classification and regression models using SQL Data Warehouse (SQL DW) for a publicly available NYC taxi trip and fare dataset.

## Use SQL Server
The [Team Data Science Process in action: using SQL Server](machine-learning-data-science-process-sql-walkthrough.md)  walkthrough shows you build and deploy machine learning classification and regression models using SQL Server and a publicly available NYC taxi trip and fare dataset.


## Use HDInsight Hadoop clusters
The [Team Data Science Process in action: using HDInsight Hadoop clusters](machine-learning-data-science-process-hive-walkthrough.md) walkthrough uses an [Azure HDInsight Hadoop cluster](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/hdinsight/) to store, explore and feature engineer data from a publicly available NYC taxi trip and fare dataset


## Use Azure HDInsight Hadoop Clusters on a 1 TB dataset
The [Team Data Science Process in action - Using Azure HDInsight Hadoop Clusters on a 1 TB dataset](machine-learning-data-science-process-hive-criteo-walkthrough.md) walkthrough presents an end-to-end scenario that uses an [Azure HDInsight Hadoop cluster](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/hdinsight/) to store, explore, feature engineer, and down sample data from one of the publicly available [Criteo](http://labs.criteo.com/downloads/download-terabyte-click-logs/) datasets.


## Data Science using Python with Spark on Azure
The [Data Science using Spark on Azure HDInsight](machine-learning-data-science-spark-overview.md) walkthrough uses the Team Data Science Process in an end-to-end scenario using an [Azure HDInsight Spark cluster](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/hdinsight/) to store, explore and feature engineer data from the publicly available NYC taxi trip and fare dataset. 

## Data Science using Scala with Spark on Azure
The [Data Science using Scala with Spark on Azure](machine-learning-data-science-process-scala-walkthrough.md) walkthrough shows how to use Scala for supervised machine learning tasks with the Spark scalable machine learning library (MLlib) and SparkML packages on an Azure HDInsight Spark cluster. It walks you through the tasks that constitute the [Data Science Process](http://aka.ms/datascienceprocess): data ingestion and exploration, visualization, feature engineering, modeling, and model consumption. The models built include logistic and linear regression, random forests and gradient boosted trees.


## Use Azure Data Lake Storage and Analytics
The [Scalable Data Science in Azure Data Lake: An end-to-end Walkthrough](machine-learning-data-science-process-data-lake-walkthrough.md) shows how to use Azure Data Lake to do data exploration and binary classification tasks on a sample of the NYC taxi trip and fare dataset to predict whether or not a tip will be paid by a fare. 

## Use R with SQL Server R Services
The [Data Science End-to-End Walkthrough using SQL Server R Services](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/mt612857.aspx)  walkthrough provides data scientists with a combination of R code, SQL Server data, and custom SQL functions to build and deploy an R model to SQL Server.

## Use T-SQL with SQL Server R Services
The [In-Database Advanced Analytics for SQL Developers](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/mt683480.aspx) walkthrough provides SQL programmers with hands-on experience building an advanced analytics solution with Transact-SQL using SQL Server R Services to operationalize an R solution.

## What's next?

For an overview of topics that walk you through the tasks that comprise the data science process in Azure, see [Data Science Process](http://aka.ms/datascienceprocess).
