articles/machine-learning/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster.md, before:

<properties 
	pageTitle="Customize Hadoop clusters for Advanced Analytics Process and Technology | Microsoft Azure" 
	description="Popular Python modules made available in custom Azure HDInsight Hadoop clusters."
	services="machine-learning" 
	solutions="" 
	documentationCenter="" 
	authors="hangzh-msft" 
	manager="paulettm" 
	editor="cgronlun"  />

<tags 
	ms.service="machine-learning" 
	ms.workload="data-services" 
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na" 
	ms.devlang="na" 
	ms.topic="article" 
	ms.date="09/01/2015" 
	ms.author="hangzh;bradsev" />

# Customize Azure HDInsight Hadoop clusters for Advanced Analytics Process and Technology

This article describes how to customize an HDInsight Hadoop cluster by installing 64-bit Anaconda (Python 2.7) on each node when the cluster is being provisioned in HDInsight service. This customization prepares the cluster for use with the Advanced Analytics Process and Technology (ADAPT) used in Azure Machine Learning. It also shows how to access the headnode to submit custom jobs to the cluster.

This customization makes many popular Python modules that are included in Anaconda conveniently available for use in user defined functions (UDFs) that are designed to process Hive records in the cluster. For instructions on the procedures used in this scenario, see [Submit Hive Queries to HDInsight Hadoop clusters in the advanced analytics process](machine-learning-data-science-hive-queries.md).


## <a name="customize"></a>Customize Azure HDInsight Hadoop Cluster

To create a customized HDInsight Hadoop cluster, users need to log on to [**Management Portal of Azure**](https://manage.windowsazure.com/), click **New** at the left bottom corner, and then select DATA SERVICES -> HDINSIGHT -> **CUSTOM CREATE** to bring up the **Cluster Details** window. 

![Create workspace][1]

Input the name of the cluster to be created on configuration page 1, and accept default values for the other fields. Click on the arrow to go to the next configuration page. 

![Create workspace][2]

On configuration page 2, input the number of **DATA NODES**, select the **REGION/VIRTUAL NETWORK**, and select the sizes of the **HEAD NODE** and the **DATA NODE**. Click the arrow to go to the next configuration page.

>[AZURE.NOTE] The **REGION/VIRTUAL NETWORK** has to be the same as the region of the storage account that is going to be used for the HDInsight Hadoop cluster. Otherwise, in fourth configuration page, the storage account that the users want to use will not appear on the dropdown list of **ACCOUNT NAME**.

![Create workspace][3]

On configuration page 3, provide a user name and password for the HDInsight Hadoop cluster. **Do not** select the _Enter the Hive/Oozie Metastore_. Then, click the arrow to go to the next configuration page. 

![Create workspace][4]

On configuration page 4, specify the storage account name, the default container of the HDInsight Hadoop cluster. If users select _Create default container_ in the **DEFAULT CONTAINER** drop down list, a container with the same name as the cluster will be created. Click the arrow to go to the last configuration page.

![Create workspace][5]

On the final **Script Actions** configuration page, click **add script action** button, and fill the text fields with the following values.
 
* **NAME** - any string as the name of this script action. 
* **NODE TYPE** - select **All nodes**. 
* **SCRIPT URI** - *http://getgoing.blob.core.windows.net/publicscripts/Azure_HDI_Setup_Windows.ps1* 
	* *publicscripts* is a public container in storage account 
	* *getgoing* we use to share PowerShell script files to facilitate users work in Azure. 
* **PARAMETERS** - (leave blank)

Finally, click on the check mark to start the creation of the customized HDInsight Hadoop cluster. 

![Create workspace][6]

## <a name="headnode"></a> Access the Head Node of Hadoop Cluster

Users must enable remote access to the Hadoop cluster in Azure before they can access the head node of the Hadoop cluster through RDP. 

1. Log in to the [**Management Portal of Azure**](https://manage.windowsazure.com/), select **HDInsight** on the left, select your Hadoop cluster from the list of clusters, click the **CONFIGURATION** tab, and then click the **ENABLE REMOTE** icon at the bottom of the page.
	
	![Create workspace][7]

2. In the **Configure Remote Desktop** window, enter the USER NAME and PASSWORD fields, and select the expiration date for remote access. Then click the check mark to enable the remote access to the head node of the Hadoop cluster.
	
	>[AZURE.NOTE] 
	>
	>1. The user name and password for the remote access are not the user name and password that you use when you created the Hadoop cluster. These are a separate set of credentials
	>
	>2. The expiration date of the remote access has to be within 7 days from the current date.

	![Create workspace][8]

3. After remote access is enabled, click **CONNECT** at the bottom of the page to remote into the head node. You log on to the head node of the Hadoop cluster by entering the credentials for the remote access user that you specified earlier.

	 ![Create workspace][9]

The next steps in the advanced analytics process are mapped in the [Learning Guide: Advanced data processing in Azure](machine-learning-data-science-advanced-data-processing.md) and may include steps that move data into HDInsight, process and sample it there in preparation for learning from the data with Azure Machine Learning.

See [Submit Hive Queries to HDInsight Hadoop clusters in the advanced analytics process](machine-learning-data-science-process-hive-tables.md) for instructions on how to access the Python modules that are included in Anaconda from the head node of the cluster in user defined functions (UDFs) that are used to process Hive records stored in the cluster.

[1]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/customize-cluster-img1.png
[2]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/customize-cluster-img2.png
[3]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/customize-cluster-img3.png
[4]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/customize-cluster-img4.png
[5]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/customize-cluster-img5.png
[6]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/script-actions.png
[7]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/enable-remote-access-1.png
[8]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/enable-remote-access-2.png
[9]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/enable-remote-access-3.png

Commit message:

Re-org of setup topics with tabbed links

articles/machine-learning/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster.md, after:

<properties 
	pageTitle="Customize Hadoop clusters for Advanced Analytics Process and Technology | Microsoft Azure" 
	description="Popular Python modules made available in custom Azure HDInsight Hadoop clusters."
	services="machine-learning" 
	solutions="" 
	documentationCenter="" 
	authors="hangzh-msft" 
	manager="paulettm" 
	editor="cgronlun"  />

<tags 
	ms.service="machine-learning" 
	ms.workload="data-services" 
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na" 
	ms.devlang="na" 
	ms.topic="article" 
	ms.date="10/13/2015" 
	ms.author="hangzh;bradsev" />

# Customize Azure HDInsight Hadoop clusters for Advanced Analytics Process and Technology

This menu links to topics that describe how to set up the various data science environments used by the Cortana Analytics Process (CAPS).

[AZURE.INCLUDE [data-science-environment-setup](../../includes/cap-setup-environments.md)]

This article describes how to customize an HDInsight Hadoop cluster by installing 64-bit Anaconda (Python 2.7) on each node when the cluster is being provisioned in HDInsight service. This customization prepares the cluster for use with the Cortana Analytics Process. It also shows how to access the headnode to submit custom jobs to the cluster.

This customization makes many popular Python modules that are included in Anaconda conveniently available for use in user defined functions (UDFs) that are designed to process Hive records in the cluster. For instructions on the procedures used in this scenario, see [Submit Hive Queries to HDInsight Hadoop clusters in the advanced analytics process](machine-learning-data-science-hive-queries.md).


## <a name="customize"></a>Customize Azure HDInsight Hadoop Cluster

To create a customized HDInsight Hadoop cluster, users need to log on to [**Management Portal of Azure**](https://manage.windowsazure.com/), click **New** at the left bottom corner, and then select DATA SERVICES -> HDINSIGHT -> **CUSTOM CREATE** to bring up the **Cluster Details** window. 

![Create workspace][1]

Input the name of the cluster to be created on configuration page 1, and accept default values for the other fields. Click on the arrow to go to the next configuration page. 

![Create workspace][2]

On configuration page 2, input the number of **DATA NODES**, select the **REGION/VIRTUAL NETWORK**, and select the sizes of the **HEAD NODE** and the **DATA NODE**. Click the arrow to go to the next configuration page.

>[AZURE.NOTE] The **REGION/VIRTUAL NETWORK** has to be the same as the region of the storage account that is going to be used for the HDInsight Hadoop cluster. Otherwise, in fourth configuration page, the storage account that the users want to use will not appear on the dropdown list of **ACCOUNT NAME**.

![Create workspace][3]

On configuration page 3, provide a user name and password for the HDInsight Hadoop cluster. **Do not** select the _Enter the Hive/Oozie Metastore_. Then, click the arrow to go to the next configuration page. 

![Create workspace][4]

On configuration page 4, specify the storage account name, the default container of the HDInsight Hadoop cluster. If users select _Create default container_ in the **DEFAULT CONTAINER** drop down list, a container with the same name as the cluster will be created. Click the arrow to go to the last configuration page.

![Create workspace][5]

On the final **Script Actions** configuration page, click **add script action** button, and fill the text fields with the following values.
 
* **NAME** - any string as the name of this script action. 
* **NODE TYPE** - select **All nodes**. 
* **SCRIPT URI** - *http://getgoing.blob.core.windows.net/publicscripts/Azure_HDI_Setup_Windows.ps1* 
	* *publicscripts* is a public container in storage account 
	* *getgoing* we use to share PowerShell script files to facilitate users work in Azure. 
* **PARAMETERS** - (leave blank)

Finally, click on the check mark to start the creation of the customized HDInsight Hadoop cluster. 

![Create workspace][6]

## <a name="headnode"></a> Access the Head Node of Hadoop Cluster

Users must enable remote access to the Hadoop cluster in Azure before they can access the head node of the Hadoop cluster through RDP. 

1. Log in to the [**Management Portal of Azure**](https://manage.windowsazure.com/), select **HDInsight** on the left, select your Hadoop cluster from the list of clusters, click the **CONFIGURATION** tab, and then click the **ENABLE REMOTE** icon at the bottom of the page.
	
	![Create workspace][7]

2. In the **Configure Remote Desktop** window, enter the USER NAME and PASSWORD fields, and select the expiration date for remote access. Then click the check mark to enable the remote access to the head node of the Hadoop cluster.
	
	>[AZURE.NOTE] 
	>
	>1. The user name and password for the remote access are not the user name and password that you use when you created the Hadoop cluster. These are a separate set of credentials
	>
	>2. The expiration date of the remote access has to be within 7 days from the current date.

	![Create workspace][8]

3. After remote access is enabled, click **CONNECT** at the bottom of the page to remote into the head node. You log on to the head node of the Hadoop cluster by entering the credentials for the remote access user that you specified earlier.

	 ![Create workspace][9]

The next steps in the advanced analytics process are mapped in the [Learning Guide: Advanced data processing in Azure](machine-learning-data-science-advanced-data-processing.md) and may include steps that move data into HDInsight, process and sample it there in preparation for learning from the data with Azure Machine Learning.

See [Submit Hive Queries to HDInsight Hadoop clusters in the advanced analytics process](machine-learning-data-science-process-hive-tables.md) for instructions on how to access the Python modules that are included in Anaconda from the head node of the cluster in user defined functions (UDFs) that are used to process Hive records stored in the cluster.

[1]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/customize-cluster-img1.png
[2]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/customize-cluster-img2.png
[3]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/customize-cluster-img3.png
[4]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/customize-cluster-img4.png
[5]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/customize-cluster-img5.png
[6]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/script-actions.png
[7]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/enable-remote-access-1.png
[8]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/enable-remote-access-2.png
[9]: ./media/machine-learning-data-science-customize-hadoop-cluster/enable-remote-access-3.png
