articles/active-directory/active-directory-azureadjoin-personal-device.md, before:

<properties 
	pageTitle="Join a personal device to your organization| Microsoft Azure" 
	description="A topic that explains how users can register their personal Windows 10 computers to their corporate network." 
	services="active-directory" 
	documentationCenter="" 
	authors="femila" 
	manager="stevenpo" 
	editor=""
	tags="azure-classic-portal"/>

<tags 
	ms.service="active-directory" 
	ms.workload="identity" 
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na" 
	ms.devlang="na" 
	ms.topic="article" 
	ms.date="08/02/2015" 
	ms.author="femila"/>

# Join a personal device to your organization

To join a Windows 10 device to your organization
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.	From the **Start** menu, select **Settings**. 
2.	Select **Accounts**, and then click **Your account**.
3.	Click **Add Work or School account**, and then type in your organizational account.
4.	You will then be taken to the logon page for your organization. Enter your username and password and click **OK**.
5.	You will then be prompted for a multi-factor authentication challenge. This is configurable by IT.
6.	Azure AD will then check whether this user/device requires mobile device management (MDM) enrollment. 
7.	Windows will then register the device in the organization’s directory in Azure AD and enroll it in MDM.
8.	When this is done, if you are a managed user, Windows will wrap up the setup process and take the user to the desktop through the auto-logon.
9.	If you are a federated user, you will be taken to the Windows logon screen and have to enter your credentials to log on.

## Additional Information
* [Extending cloud capabilities to Windows 10 devices through Azure Active Directory Join](active-directory-azureadjoin-user-upgrade.md)
* [Learn about usage scenarios and deployment considerations for Azure AD Join](active-directory-azureadjoin-deployment-aadjoindirect.md)
* [Set up Azure AD Join](active-directory-azureadjoin-setup.md)

Commit message:

replaced logon with sign-in

articles/active-directory/active-directory-azureadjoin-personal-device.md, after:

<properties
	pageTitle="Join a personal device to your organization| Microsoft Azure"
	description="A topic that explains how users can register their personal Windows 10 computers to their corporate network."
	services="active-directory"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="femila"
	manager="stevenpo"
	editor=""
	tags="azure-classic-portal"/>

<tags
	ms.service="active-directory"
	ms.workload="identity"
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
	ms.devlang="na"
	ms.topic="article"
	ms.date="08/02/2015"
	ms.author="femila"/>

# Join a personal device to your organization

To join a Windows 10 device to your organization
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.	From the **Start** menu, select **Settings**.
2.	Select **Accounts**, and then click **Your account**.
3.	Click **Add Work or School account**, and then type in your organizational account.
4.	You will then be taken to the logon page for your organization. Enter your username and password and click **OK**.
5.	You will then be prompted for a multi-factor authentication challenge. This is configurable by IT.
6.	Azure AD will then check whether this user/device requires mobile device management (MDM) enrollment.
7.	Windows will then register the device in the organization’s directory in Azure AD and enroll it in MDM.
8.	When this is done, if you are a managed user, Windows will wrap up the setup process and take the user to the desktop through the automatic sign-in screen.
9.	If you are a federated user, you will be taken to the Windows sign-in screen and have to enter your credentials.

## Additional Information
* [Extending cloud capabilities to Windows 10 devices through Azure Active Directory Join](active-directory-azureadjoin-user-upgrade.md)
* [Learn about usage scenarios and deployment considerations for Azure AD Join](active-directory-azureadjoin-deployment-aadjoindirect.md)
* [Set up Azure AD Join](active-directory-azureadjoin-setup.md)
