articles/active-directory/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial.md, before:

---
title: 'Tutorial: Azure Active Directory integration with 123ContactForm | Microsoft Docs'
description: Learn how to configure single sign-on between Azure Active Directory and 123ContactForm.
services: active-directory
documentationCenter: na
author: jeevansd
manager: femila

ms.assetid: 5211910a-ab96-4709-959a-524c4d57c43e
ms.service: active-directory
ms.workload: identity
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/23/2017
ms.author: jeedes

---
# Tutorial: Azure Active Directory integration with 123ContactForm

In this tutorial, you learn how to integrate 123ContactForm with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).

Integrating 123ContactForm with Azure AD provides you with the following benefits:

- You can control in Azure AD who has access to 123ContactForm
- You can enable your users to automatically get signed-on to 123ContactForm (Single Sign-On) with their Azure AD accounts
- You can manage your accounts in one central location - the Azure portal

If you want to know more details about SaaS app integration with Azure AD, see [what is application access and single sign-on with Azure Active Directory](active-directory-appssoaccess-whatis.md).

## Prerequisites

To configure Azure AD integration with 123ContactForm, you need the following items:

- An Azure AD subscription
- A 123ContactForm single-sign on enabled subscription

> [!NOTE]
> To test the steps in this tutorial, we do not recommend using a production environment.

To test the steps in this tutorial, you should follow these recommendations:

- Do not use your production environment, unless it is necessary.
- If you don't have an Azure AD trial environment, you can get a one-month trial [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/).

## Scenario description
In this tutorial, you test Azure AD single sign-on in a test environment. 
The scenario outlined in this tutorial consists of two main building blocks:

1. Adding 123ContactForm from the gallery
2. Configuring and testing Azure AD single sign-on

## Adding 123ContactForm from the gallery
To configure the integration of 123ContactForm into Azure AD, you need to add 123ContactForm from the gallery to your list of managed SaaS apps.

**To add 123ContactForm from the gallery, perform the following steps:**

1. In the **[Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com)**, on the left navigation panel, click **Azure Active Directory** icon. 

	![Active Directory][1]

2. Navigate to **Enterprise applications**. Then go to **All applications**.

	![Applications][2]
	
3. To add new application, click **New application** button on the top of dialog.

	![Applications][3]

4. In the search box, type **123ContactForm**.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_123contactform_search.png)

5. In the results panel, select **123ContactForm**, and then click **Add** button to add the application.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_123contactform_addfromgallery.png)

##  Configuring and testing Azure AD single sign-on
In this section, you configure and test Azure AD single sign-on with 123ContactForm based on a test user called "Britta Simon."

For single sign-on to work, Azure AD needs to know what the counterpart user in 123ContactForm is to a user in Azure AD. In other words, a link relationship between an Azure AD user and the related user in 123ContactForm needs to be established.

In 123ContactForm, assign the value of the **user name** in Azure AD as the value of the **Username** to establish the link relationship.

To configure and test Azure AD single sign-on with 123ContactForm, you need to complete the following building blocks:

1. **[Configuring Azure AD Single Sign-On](#configuring-azure-ad-single-sign-on)** - to enable your users to use this feature.
2. **[Creating an Azure AD test user](#creating-an-azure-ad-test-user)** - to test Azure AD single sign-on with Britta Simon.
3. **[Creating a 123ContactForm test user](#creating-a-123contactform-test-user)** - to have a counterpart of Britta Simon in 123ContactForm that is linked to the Azure AD representation of user.
4. **[Assigning the Azure AD test user](#assigning-the-azure-ad-test-user)** - to enable Britta Simon to use Azure AD single sign-on.
5. **[Testing Single Sign-On](#testing-single-sign-on)** - to verify whether the configuration works.

### Configuring Azure AD single sign-on

In this section, you enable Azure AD single sign-on in the Azure portal and configure single sign-on in your 123ContactForm application.

**To configure Azure AD single sign-on with 123ContactForm, perform the following steps:**

1. In the Azure portal, on the **123ContactForm** application integration page, click **Single sign-on**.

	![Configure Single Sign-On][4]

2. On the **Single sign-on** dialog, select **Mode** as	**SAML-based Sign-on** to enable single sign-on.
 
	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_123contactform_samlbase.png)

3. On the **123ContactForm Domain and URLs** section, If you wish to configure the application in **IDP initiated mode**, no need to perform any steps.

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/url1.png)

4. If you wish to configure the application in **SP initiated mode**, perform the following steps:

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/url2.png)

    a. Click the **Show advanced URL settings** option

	b. In the **Sign On URL** textbox, type a URL as: `https://www.123contactform.com/index.php?p=sso&idp=azure_ad_5`

5. On the **SAML Signing Certificate** section, click **Metadata XML** and then save the metadata file on your computer.

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_123contactform_certificate.png) 

6. Click **Save** button.

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_400.png)

7. To configure single sign-on on **123ContactForm** side, go to [https://www.123contactform.com/form-2709121/](https://www.123contactform.com/form-2709121/) and perform the following steps:

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/submit.png) 

	a. In the **Email** textbox, type the email of the user i.e **BrittaSimon@Contoso.com**.

	b. Click **Upload** and browse the Metadata XML file which you have downloaded from Azure portal.

	c. Click **SUBMIT FORM**.

8. After the form is submitted, the support team will get the request and they set up the SSO on the application end.

> [!TIP]
> You can now read a concise version of these instructions inside the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), while you are setting up the app!  After adding this app from the **Active Directory > Enterprise Applications** section, simply click the **Single Sign-On** tab and access the embedded documentation through the **Configuration** section at the bottom. You can read more about the embedded documentation feature here: [Azure AD embedded documentation]( https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=845985)
> 

### Creating an Azure AD test user
The objective of this section is to create a test user in the Azure portal called Britta Simon.

![Create Azure AD User][100]

**To create a test user in Azure AD, perform the following steps:**

1. In the **Azure portal**, on the left navigation pane, click **Azure Active Directory** icon.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/create_aaduser_01.png) 

2. To display the list of users, go to **Users and groups** and click **All users**.
	
	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/create_aaduser_02.png) 

3. To open the **User** dialog, click **Add** on the top of the dialog.
 
	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/create_aaduser_03.png) 

4. On the **User** dialog page, perform the following steps:
 
	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/create_aaduser_04.png) 

    a. In the **Name** textbox, type **BrittaSimon**.

    b. In the **User name** textbox, type the **email address** of BrittaSimon.

	c. Select **Show Password** and write down the value of the **Password**.

    d. Click **Create**.
 
### Creating a 123ContactForm test user

Application supports Just in time user provisioning and after authentication users will be created in the application automatically.

### Assigning the Azure AD test user

In this section, you enable Britta Simon to use Azure single sign-on by granting access to 123ContactForm.

![Assign User][200] 

**To assign Britta Simon to 123ContactForm, perform the following steps:**

1. In the Azure portal, open the applications view, and then navigate to the directory view and go to **Enterprise applications** then click **All applications**.

	![Assign User][201] 

2. In the applications list, select **123ContactForm**.

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_123contactform_app.png) 

3. In the menu on the left, click **Users and groups**.

	![Assign User][202] 

4. Click **Add** button. Then select **Users and groups** on **Add Assignment** dialog.

	![Assign User][203]

5. On **Users and groups** dialog, select **Britta Simon** in the Users list.

6. Click **Select** button on **Users and groups** dialog.

7. Click **Assign** button on **Add Assignment** dialog.
	
### Testing single sign-on

In this section, you test your Azure AD single sign-on configuration using the Access Panel.

When you click the 123ContactForm tile in the Access Panel, you should get automatically signed-on to your 123ContactForm application.
For more information about the Access Panel, see [Introduction to the Access Panel](active-directory-saas-access-panel-introduction.md).

## Additional resources

* [List of Tutorials on How to Integrate SaaS Apps with Azure Active Directory](active-directory-saas-tutorial-list.md)
* [What is application access and single sign-on with Azure Active Directory?](active-directory-appssoaccess-whatis.md)



<!--Image references-->

[1]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_01.png
[2]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_02.png
[3]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_03.png
[4]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_04.png

[100]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_100.png

[200]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_200.png
[201]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_201.png
[202]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_202.png
[203]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_203.png

Commit message:

USER STORY 1022222 SaaS App Tutorial: 123Contact Form Tutorial Update

articles/active-directory/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial.md, after:

---
title: 'Tutorial: Azure Active Directory integration with 123ContactForm | Microsoft Docs'
description: Learn how to configure single sign-on between Azure Active Directory and 123ContactForm.
services: active-directory
documentationCenter: na
author: jeevansd
manager: femila

ms.assetid: 5211910a-ab96-4709-959a-524c4d57c43e
ms.service: active-directory
ms.workload: identity
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 06/22/2017
ms.author: jeedes

---
# Tutorial: Azure Active Directory integration with 123ContactForm

In this tutorial, you learn how to integrate 123ContactForm with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).

Integrating 123ContactForm with Azure AD provides you with the following benefits:

- You can control in Azure AD who has access to 123ContactForm
- You can enable your users to automatically get signed-on to 123ContactForm (Single Sign-On) with their Azure AD accounts
- You can manage your accounts in one central location - the Azure portal

If you want to know more details about SaaS app integration with Azure AD, see [what is application access and single sign-on with Azure Active Directory](active-directory-appssoaccess-whatis.md).

## Prerequisites

To configure Azure AD integration with 123ContactForm, you need the following items:

- An Azure AD subscription
- A 123ContactForm single sign-on enabled subscription

> [!NOTE]
> To test the steps in this tutorial, we do not recommend using a production environment.

To test the steps in this tutorial, you should follow these recommendations:

- Do not use your production environment, unless it is necessary.
- If you don't have an Azure AD trial environment, you can get a one-month trial [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/).

## Scenario description
In this tutorial, you test Azure AD single sign-on in a test environment. 
The scenario outlined in this tutorial consists of two main building blocks:

1. Adding 123ContactForm from the gallery
2. Configuring and testing Azure AD single sign-on

## Adding 123ContactForm from the gallery
To configure the integration of 123ContactForm into Azure AD, you need to add 123ContactForm from the gallery to your list of managed SaaS apps.

**To add 123ContactForm from the gallery, perform the following steps:**

1. In the **[Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com)**, on the left navigation panel, click **Azure Active Directory** icon. 

	![Active Directory][1]

2. Navigate to **Enterprise applications**. Then go to **All applications**.

	![Applications][2]
	
3. To add new application, click **New application** button on the top of dialog.

	![Applications][3]

4. In the search box, type **123ContactForm**.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_123contactform_search.png)

5. In the results panel, select **123ContactForm**, and then click **Add** button to add the application.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_123contactform_addfromgallery.png)

##  Configuring and testing Azure AD single sign-on
In this section, you configure and test Azure AD single sign-on with 123ContactForm based on a test user called "Britta Simon."

For single sign-on to work, Azure AD needs to know what the counterpart user in 123ContactForm is to a user in Azure AD. In other words, a link relationship between an Azure AD user and the related user in 123ContactForm needs to be established.

In 123ContactForm, assign the value of the **user name** in Azure AD as the value of the **Username** to establish the link relationship.

To configure and test Azure AD single sign-on with 123ContactForm, you need to complete the following building blocks:

1. **[Configuring Azure AD Single Sign-On](#configuring-azure-ad-single-sign-on)** - to enable your users to use this feature.
2. **[Creating an Azure AD test user](#creating-an-azure-ad-test-user)** - to test Azure AD single sign-on with Britta Simon.
3. **[Creating a 123ContactForm test user](#creating-a-123contactform-test-user)** - to have a counterpart of Britta Simon in 123ContactForm that is linked to the Azure AD representation of user.
4. **[Assigning the Azure AD test user](#assigning-the-azure-ad-test-user)** - to enable Britta Simon to use Azure AD single sign-on.
5. **[Testing Single Sign-On](#testing-single-sign-on)** - to verify whether the configuration works.

### Configuring Azure AD single sign-on

In this section, you enable Azure AD single sign-on in the Azure portal and configure single sign-on in your 123ContactForm application.

**To configure Azure AD single sign-on with 123ContactForm, perform the following steps:**

1. In the Azure portal, on the **123ContactForm** application integration page, click **Single sign-on**.

	![Configure Single Sign-On][4]

2. On the **Single sign-on** dialog, select **Mode** as	**SAML-based Sign-on** to enable single sign-on.
 
	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_123contactform_samlbase.png)

3. On the **123ContactForm Domain and URLs** section, If you wish to configure the application in **IDP initiated mode**, perform the following steps:

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/url1.png)

	a. In the **Identifier** textbox, type a URL using the following pattern: `https://www.123contactform.com/saml/azure_ad/<id>/metadata`

	b. In the **Reply URL** textbox, type a URL using the following pattern: `https://www.123contactform.com/saml/azure_ad/<id>/acs`

4. If you wish to configure the application in **SP initiated mode**, perform the following steps:

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/url2.png)

    a. Click the **Show advanced URL settings** option

	b. In the **Sign On URL** textbox, type a URL as: `https://www.123contactform.com/saml/azure_ad/<id>/sso`

	> [!NOTE] 
	> The preceding values are not real. Later, you will update the values with the actual URL and identifier, which is explained later in the tutorial.

5. On the **SAML Signing Certificate** section, click **Metadata XML** and then save the metadata file on your computer.

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_123contactform_certificate.png) 

6. Click **Save** button.

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_400.png)

7. To configure single sign-on on **123ContactForm** side, go to [https://www.123contactform.com/form-2709121/](https://www.123contactform.com/form-2709121/) and perform the following steps:

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/submit.png) 

	a. In the **Email** textbox, type the email of the user i.e **BrittaSimon@Contoso.com**.

	b. Click **Upload** and browse the Metadata XML file, which you have downloaded from Azure portal.

	c. Click **SUBMIT FORM**.

8. On the **Microsoft Azure AD - Single sign-on - Configure App Settings** perform the following steps:
	
	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/url3.png)

	a. If you wish to configure the application in **IDP initiated mode**, copy the **IDENTIFIER** value for your instance and paste it in **Identifier** textbox in **123ContactForm Domain and URLs** section on Azure portal.
	
	b. If you wish to configure the application in **IDP initiated mode**, copy the **REPLY URL** value for your instance and paste it in **Reply URL** textbox in **123ContactForm Domain and URLs** section on Azure portal.

	c. If you wish to configure the application in **SP initiated mode**, copy the **SIGN ON URL** value for your instance and paste it in **Sign On URL** textbox in **123ContactForm Domain and URLs** section on Azure portal.

> [!TIP]
> You can now read a concise version of these instructions inside the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), while you are setting up the app!  After adding this app from the **Active Directory > Enterprise Applications** section, simply click the **Single Sign-On** tab and access the embedded documentation through the **Configuration** section at the bottom. You can read more about the embedded documentation feature here: [Azure AD embedded documentation]( https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=845985)
> 

### Creating an Azure AD test user
The objective of this section is to create a test user in the Azure portal called Britta Simon.

![Create Azure AD User][100]

**To create a test user in Azure AD, perform the following steps:**

1. In the **Azure portal**, on the left navigation pane, click **Azure Active Directory** icon.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/create_aaduser_01.png) 

2. To display the list of users, go to **Users and groups** and click **All users**.
	
	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/create_aaduser_02.png) 

3. To open the **User** dialog, click **Add** on the top of the dialog.
 
	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/create_aaduser_03.png) 

4. On the **User** dialog page, perform the following steps:
 
	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/create_aaduser_04.png) 

    a. In the **Name** textbox, type **BrittaSimon**.

    b. In the **User name** textbox, type the **email address** of BrittaSimon.

	c. Select **Show Password** and write down the value of the **Password**.

    d. Click **Create**.
 
### Creating a 123ContactForm test user

Application supports Just in time user provisioning and after authentication users will be created in the application automatically.

### Assigning the Azure AD test user

In this section, you enable Britta Simon to use Azure single sign-on by granting access to 123ContactForm.

![Assign User][200] 

**To assign Britta Simon to 123ContactForm, perform the following steps:**

1. In the Azure portal, open the applications view, and then navigate to the directory view and go to **Enterprise applications** then click **All applications**.

	![Assign User][201] 

2. In the applications list, select **123ContactForm**.

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_123contactform_app.png) 

3. In the menu on the left, click **Users and groups**.

	![Assign User][202] 

4. Click **Add** button. Then select **Users and groups** on **Add Assignment** dialog.

	![Assign User][203]

5. On **Users and groups** dialog, select **Britta Simon** in the Users list.

6. Click **Select** button on **Users and groups** dialog.

7. Click **Assign** button on **Add Assignment** dialog.
	
### Testing single sign-on

In this section, you test your Azure AD single sign-on configuration using the Access Panel.

When you click the 123ContactForm tile in the Access Panel, you should get automatically signed-on to your 123ContactForm application.
For more information about the Access Panel, see [Introduction to the Access Panel](active-directory-saas-access-panel-introduction.md).

## Additional resources

* [List of Tutorials on How to Integrate SaaS Apps with Azure Active Directory](active-directory-saas-tutorial-list.md)
* [What is application access and single sign-on with Azure Active Directory?](active-directory-appssoaccess-whatis.md)



<!--Image references-->

[1]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_01.png
[2]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_02.png
[3]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_03.png
[4]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_04.png

[100]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_100.png

[200]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_200.png
[201]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_201.png
[202]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_202.png
[203]: ./media/active-directory-saas-123contactform-tutorial/tutorial_general_203.png
