articles/active-directory/active-directory-setup-goog-app.md, before:

<properties
	pageTitle="Create a Google+ application - Azure Active Directory B2C"
	description="How to create a Google+ application - Azure Active Directory B2C"
	services="active-directory"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="swkrish"
	manager="msmbaldwin"
	editor="curtand"/>

<tags
	ms.service="active-directory"
	ms.workload="identity"
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
	ms.devlang="na"
	ms.topic="article"
	ms.date="08/10/2015"
	ms.author="swkrish"/>

# How to create a Google+ application that works with Azure Active Directory B2C

To use Google+ as an identity provider in Azure AD B2C, you will first need to create a Google+ application and supply it with the right parameters. You will need a Google+ account to do this; if you don’t have one, you can get it at [https://accounts.google.com/SignUp](https://accounts.google.com/SignUp).

- Go to the [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/) and sign in with your Google+ account credentials.
- Click **Create Project**, enter a **Project name** and then click **Create**.
- Click **APIs & Auth** and then **Credentials** in the left hand navigation.
- Click **Create new Client ID** under the **OAuth** section.
- Under **Application type**, select **Web application**. Click **Configure consent screen**.
- Specify a valid **Email address**, provide a **Product name** and click **Save**.
- On the **Create Client ID** dialog, enter `https://login.microsoftonline.com` in the **Authorized JavaScript origins** field and `https://login.microsoftonline.com/te/<directory>/oauth2/authresp` in the **Authorized redirect URIs** field, where `<directory>` should be replaced with your directory's name (for example, contoso.onmicrosoft.com). Click **Create Client ID**.

> [AZURE.NOTE]
The directory's name is case-sensitive.

- Copy the values of **Client ID** and **Client secret**. You will need both of them to configure Google+ as an identity provider in your directory.

> [AZURE.NOTE]
**Client secret** is an important security credential.

You can go back to the Azure AD B2C features blade on the [Azure Portal](htts://portal.azure.com/) to setup Google+ as an identity provider.

Commit message:

Re-structured the doc tree and added content
* b2c app registration
* b2c overview (landing page)
* removed webapp-dotnet. will add back in with new content
* get started b2c
* cleaned up customization and social idp docs

articles/active-directory/active-directory-setup-goog-app.md, after:

<properties
	pageTitle="Google+ configuration - Azure Active Directory B2C"
	description="Azure Active Directory B2C - Provide sign up and sign in to consumers with Google+ accounts in your applications"
	services="active-directory"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="swkrish"
	manager="msmbaldwin"
	editor="curtand"/>

<tags
	ms.service="active-directory"
	ms.workload="identity"
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
	ms.devlang="na"
	ms.topic="article"
	ms.date="08/10/2015"
	ms.author="swkrish"/>

# Azure Active Directory B2C - Provide sign up and sign in to consumers with Google+ accounts in your applications

## Create a Google+ application

To use Google+ as an identity provider in Azure AD B2C, you will first need to create a Google+ application and supply it with the right parameters. You will need a Google+ account to do this; if you don’t have one, you can get it at [https://accounts.google.com/SignUp](https://accounts.google.com/SignUp).

1. Go to the [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/) and sign in with your Google+ account credentials.
2. Click **Create Project**, enter a **Project name** and then click **Create**.
3. Click **APIs & Auth** and then **Credentials** in the left hand navigation.
4. Click **Create new Client ID** under the **OAuth** section.
5. Under **Application type**, select **Web application**. Click **Configure consent screen**.
6. Specify a valid **Email address**, provide a **Product name** and click **Save**.
7. On the **Create Client ID** dialog, enter [https://login.microsoftonline.com](https://login.microsoftonline.com) in the **Authorized JavaScript origins** field and [https://login.microsoftonline.com/te/<directory>/oauth2/authresp](https://login.microsoftonline.com/te/<directory>/oauth2/authresp) in the **Authorized redirect URIs** field, where **<directory>** is to be replaced with your directory's name (for e.g., contoso.onmicrosoft.com). Click **Create Client ID**.

> [AZURE.NOTE]
The **<directory>** value is case-sensitive.

8. Copy the values of **Client ID** and **Client secret**. You will need both of them to configure Google+ as an identity provider in your directory.

> [AZURE.NOTE]
**Client secret** is an important security credential.

## Configure Google+ as an identity provider in your directory

1. Navigate to the B2C features blade on the [Azure Portal](htts://portal.azure.com/). Read [here](active-directory-b2c-app-registration.md#navigate-to-the-b2c-features-blade-on-the-azure-portal) on how to do this.
2. On the B2C features blade, click **Social identity providers**.
3. Click **+Add** at the top of the blade.
4. Provide a friendly **Name** for the identity provider configuration. For e.g., enter "Google+ (Contoso)".
5. Click **Identity provider type**, select **Google** and click **OK**.
6. Click **Set up this identity provider** and enter the **Client ID** and **Client secret** of the Facebook application that you created earlier.
7. Click **OK** and then **Create** to save your Google+ configuration.
