articles/active-directory/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial.md, before:

<properties
	pageTitle="Tutorial: Azure Active Directory integration with Birst Agile Business Analytics | Microsoft Azure"
	description="Learn how to configure single sign-on between Azure Active Directory and Birst Agile Business Analytics."
	services="active-directory"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="jeevansd"
	manager="femila"
	editor=""/>

<tags
	ms.service="active-directory"
	ms.workload="identity"
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
	ms.devlang="na"
	ms.topic="article"
	ms.date="07/19/2016"
	ms.author="jeedes"/>


# Tutorial: Azure Active Directory integration with Birst Agile Business Analytics

The objective of this tutorial is to show you how to integrate Birst Agile Business Analytics with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).

Integrating Birst Agile Business Analytics with Azure AD provides you with the following benefits:

- You can control in Azure AD who has access to Birst Agile Business Analytics
- You can enable your users to automatically get signed-on to Birst Agile Business Analytics (Single Sign-On) with their Azure AD accounts
- You can manage your accounts in one central location - the Azure classic portal

If you want to know more details about SaaS app integration with Azure AD, see [What is application access and single sign-on with Azure Active Directory](active-directory-appssoaccess-whatis.md).

## Prerequisites

To configure Azure AD integration with Birst Agile Business Analytics, you need the following items:

- An Azure AD subscription
- A Birst Agile Business Analytics single-sign on enabled subscription


> [AZURE.NOTE] To test the steps in this tutorial, we do not recommend using a production environment.


To test the steps in this tutorial, you should follow these recommendations:

- You should not use your production environment, unless this is necessary.
- If you don't have an Azure AD trial environment, you can get a one-month trial [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/).


## Scenario Description
The objective of this tutorial is to enable you to test Azure AD single sign-on in a test environment. 

The scenario outlined in this tutorial consists of two main building blocks:

1. Adding Birst Agile Business Analytics from the gallery
2. Configuring and testing Azure AD single sign-on


## Adding Birst Agile Business Analytics from the gallery
To configure the integration of Birst Agile Business Analytics into Azure AD, you need to add Birst Agile Business Analytics from the gallery to your list of managed SaaS apps.

**To add Birst Agile Business Analytics from the gallery, perform the following steps:**

1. In the **Azure classic portal**, on the left navigation pane, click **Active Directory**. 

	![Active Directory][1]

2. From the **Directory** list, select the directory for which you want to enable directory integration.

3. To open the applications view, in the directory view, click **Applications** in the top menu.

	![Applications][2]

4. Click **Add** at the bottom of the page.

	![Applications][3]

5. On the **What do you want to do** dialog, click **Add an application from the gallery**.

	![Applications][4]

6. In the search box, type **Birst Agile Business Analytics**.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_birst_01.png)

7. In the results pane, select **Birst Agile Business Analytics**, and then click **Complete** to add the application.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_birst_02.png)


##  Configuring and testing Azure AD single sign-on
The objective of this section is to show you how to configure and test Azure AD single sign-on with Birst Agile Business Analytics based on a test user called "Britta Simon".

For single sign-on to work, Azure AD needs to know what the counterpart user in Birst Agile Business Analytics to an user in Azure AD is. In other words, a link relationship between an Azure AD user and the related user in Birst Agile Business Analytics needs to be established.

This link relationship is established by assigning the value of the **user name** in Azure AD as the value of the **Username** in Birst Agile Business Analytics.

To configure and test Azure AD single sign-on with Birst Agile Business Analytics, you need to complete the following building blocks:

1. **[Configuring Azure AD Single Sign-On](#configuring-azure-ad-single-single-sign-on)** - to enable your users to use this feature.
2. **[Creating an Azure AD test user](#creating-an-azure-ad-test-user)** - to test Azure AD single sign-on with Britta Simon.
4. **[Creating a Birst Agile Business Analytics test user](#creating-a-birst-agile-business-analytics-test-user)** - to have a counterpart of Britta Simon in Birst Agile Business Analytics that is linked to the Azure AD representation of her.
5. **[Assigning the Azure AD test user](#assigning-the-azure-ad-test-user)** - to enable Britta Simon to use Azure AD single sign-on.
5. **[Testing Single Sign-On](#testing-single-sign-on)** - to verify whether the configuration works.

### Configuring Azure AD Single Sign-On

The objective of this section is to enable Azure AD single sign-on in the Azure classic portal and to configure single sign-on in your Birst Agile Business Analytics application.



**To configure Azure AD single sign-on with Birst Agile Business Analytics, perform the following steps:**

1. In the Azure classic portal, on the **Birst Agile Business Analytics** application integration page, click **Configure single sign-on** to open the **Configure Single Sign-On**  dialog.

	![Configure Single Sign-On][6] 

2. On the **How would you like users to sign on to Birst Agile Business Analytics** page, select **Azure AD Single Sign-On**, and then click **Next**.

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_birst_03.png) 

3. On the **Configure App Settings** dialog page, perform the following steps:.

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_birst_04.png) 


    a. In the Sign On URL textbox, type the URL used by your users to sign-on to your Birst Agile Business Analytics application using the following pattern: **“https://login.bws.birst.com/SAMLSSO/Service.aspx?birst.idpid=TENANTIDPID”**.

	b. Click **Next**.


4. On the **Configure single sign-on at Birst Agile Business Analytics** page, perform the following steps:

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_birst_05.png) 

    a. Click **Download certificate**, and then save the file on your computer.

    b. Click **Next**.


5. To get SSO configured for your application, contact your Birst Agile Business Analytics support team via [info@birst.com](emailTo:info@birst.com) and attach the downloaded certificate file to your email. Also please do provide the SAML SSO URL, Sign Out URL and Issuer URL so that they can be configured for SSO integration.


> [AZURE.NOTE] Please mention to Birst team that this integration need SHA256 Algorithm (SHA1 will not be supported) so that they can set the SSO on the appropriate server like **app2101** etc.



6. In the Azure classic portal, select the single sign-on configuration confirmation, and then click **Next**.
	
	![Azure AD Single Sign-On][10]

7. On the **Single sign-on confirmation** page, click **Complete**.  
  
	![Azure AD Single Sign-On][11]



### Creating an Azure AD test user
The objective of this section is to create a test user in the Azure classic portal called Britta Simon.

In the Users list, select **Britta Simon**.

![Create Azure AD User][20]

**To create a test user in Azure AD, perform the following steps:**

1. In the **Azure classic Portal**, on the left navigation pane, click **Active Directory**.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/create_aaduser_09.png) 

2. From the **Directory** list, select the directory for which you want to enable directory integration.

3. To display the list of users, in the menu on the top, click **Users**.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/create_aaduser_03.png) 

4. To open the **Add User** dialog, in the toolbar on the bottom, click **Add User**.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/create_aaduser_04.png) 

5. On the **Tell us about this user** dialog page, perform the following steps:

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/create_aaduser_05.png) 

    a. As Type Of User, select New user in your organization.

    b. In the User Name **textbox**, type **BrittaSimon**.

    c. Click **Next**.

6.  On the **User Profile** dialog page, perform the following steps:

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/create_aaduser_06.png) 

    a. In the **First Name** textbox, type **Britta**.  

    b. In the **Last Name** textbox, type, **Simon**.

    c. In the **Display Name** textbox, type **Britta Simon**.

    d. In the **Role** list, select **User**.

    e. Click **Next**.

7. On the **Get temporary password** dialog page, click **create**.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/create_aaduser_07.png) 

8. On the **Get temporary password** dialog page, perform the following steps:

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/create_aaduser_08.png) 

    a. Write down the value of the **New Password**.

    b. Click **Complete**.   



### Creating a Birst Agile Business Analytics test user

The objective of this section is to create a user called Britta Simon in Birst Agile Business Analytics. Please work with Birst Agile Business Analytics support team to add the users in the Birst account. 


> [AZURE.NOTE] If you need to create an user manually, you need to 
> contact the Birst Agile Business Analytics support team.


### Assigning the Azure AD test user

The objective of this section is to enabling Britta Simon to use Azure single sign-on by granting her access to Birst Agile Business Analytics.

![Assign User][200] 

**To assign Britta Simon to Birst Agile Business Analytics, perform the following steps:**

1. On the Azure classic portal, to open the applications view, in the directory view, click **Applications** in the top menu.

	![Assign User][201] 

2. In the applications list, select **Birst Agile Business Analytics**.

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_birst_50.png) 

1. In the menu on the top, click **Users**.

	![Assign User][203] 

1. In the Users list, select **Britta Simon**.

2. In the toolbar on the bottom, click **Assign**.

	![Assign User][205]



### Testing Single Sign-On

The objective of this section is to test your Azure AD single sign-on configuration using the Access Panel.

When you click the Birst Agile Business Analytics tile in the Access Panel, you should get automatically signed-on to your Birst Agile Business Analytics application.


## Additional Resources

* [List of Tutorials on How to Integrate SaaS Apps with Azure Active Directory](active-directory-saas-tutorial-list.md)
* [What is application access and single sign-on with Azure Active Directory?](active-directory-appssoaccess-whatis.md)


<!--Image references-->

[1]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_01.png
[2]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_02.png
[3]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_03.png
[4]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_04.png

[6]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_05.png
[10]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_06.png
[11]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_07.png
[20]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_100.png

[200]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_200.png
[201]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_201.png
[203]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_203.png
[204]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_204.png
[205]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_205.png

Commit message:

Update step 3
Adjusted the URL, it was correct in the image but not in the text.
Birst also has 2 datacenters for witch the URL is different. I had a call with Paul Gale from Birst who told me this.
Also found out that the Reply URL is by default www.birst.com and that needs to be configured as well (step b)

articles/active-directory/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial.md, after:

<properties
	pageTitle="Tutorial: Azure Active Directory integration with Birst Agile Business Analytics | Microsoft Azure"
	description="Learn how to configure single sign-on between Azure Active Directory and Birst Agile Business Analytics."
	services="active-directory"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="jeevansd"
	manager="femila"
	editor=""/>

<tags
	ms.service="active-directory"
	ms.workload="identity"
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
	ms.devlang="na"
	ms.topic="article"
	ms.date="07/19/2016"
	ms.author="jeedes"/>


# Tutorial: Azure Active Directory integration with Birst Agile Business Analytics

The objective of this tutorial is to show you how to integrate Birst Agile Business Analytics with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).

Integrating Birst Agile Business Analytics with Azure AD provides you with the following benefits:

- You can control in Azure AD who has access to Birst Agile Business Analytics
- You can enable your users to automatically get signed-on to Birst Agile Business Analytics (Single Sign-On) with their Azure AD accounts
- You can manage your accounts in one central location - the Azure classic portal

If you want to know more details about SaaS app integration with Azure AD, see [What is application access and single sign-on with Azure Active Directory](active-directory-appssoaccess-whatis.md).

## Prerequisites

To configure Azure AD integration with Birst Agile Business Analytics, you need the following items:

- An Azure AD subscription
- A Birst Agile Business Analytics single-sign on enabled subscription


> [AZURE.NOTE] To test the steps in this tutorial, we do not recommend using a production environment.


To test the steps in this tutorial, you should follow these recommendations:

- You should not use your production environment, unless this is necessary.
- If you don't have an Azure AD trial environment, you can get a one-month trial [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/).


## Scenario Description
The objective of this tutorial is to enable you to test Azure AD single sign-on in a test environment. 

The scenario outlined in this tutorial consists of two main building blocks:

1. Adding Birst Agile Business Analytics from the gallery
2. Configuring and testing Azure AD single sign-on


## Adding Birst Agile Business Analytics from the gallery
To configure the integration of Birst Agile Business Analytics into Azure AD, you need to add Birst Agile Business Analytics from the gallery to your list of managed SaaS apps.

**To add Birst Agile Business Analytics from the gallery, perform the following steps:**

1. In the **Azure classic portal**, on the left navigation pane, click **Active Directory**. 

	![Active Directory][1]

2. From the **Directory** list, select the directory for which you want to enable directory integration.

3. To open the applications view, in the directory view, click **Applications** in the top menu.

	![Applications][2]

4. Click **Add** at the bottom of the page.

	![Applications][3]

5. On the **What do you want to do** dialog, click **Add an application from the gallery**.

	![Applications][4]

6. In the search box, type **Birst Agile Business Analytics**.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_birst_01.png)

7. In the results pane, select **Birst Agile Business Analytics**, and then click **Complete** to add the application.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_birst_02.png)


##  Configuring and testing Azure AD single sign-on
The objective of this section is to show you how to configure and test Azure AD single sign-on with Birst Agile Business Analytics based on a test user called "Britta Simon".

For single sign-on to work, Azure AD needs to know what the counterpart user in Birst Agile Business Analytics to an user in Azure AD is. In other words, a link relationship between an Azure AD user and the related user in Birst Agile Business Analytics needs to be established.

This link relationship is established by assigning the value of the **user name** in Azure AD as the value of the **Username** in Birst Agile Business Analytics.

To configure and test Azure AD single sign-on with Birst Agile Business Analytics, you need to complete the following building blocks:

1. **[Configuring Azure AD Single Sign-On](#configuring-azure-ad-single-single-sign-on)** - to enable your users to use this feature.
2. **[Creating an Azure AD test user](#creating-an-azure-ad-test-user)** - to test Azure AD single sign-on with Britta Simon.
4. **[Creating a Birst Agile Business Analytics test user](#creating-a-birst-agile-business-analytics-test-user)** - to have a counterpart of Britta Simon in Birst Agile Business Analytics that is linked to the Azure AD representation of her.
5. **[Assigning the Azure AD test user](#assigning-the-azure-ad-test-user)** - to enable Britta Simon to use Azure AD single sign-on.
5. **[Testing Single Sign-On](#testing-single-sign-on)** - to verify whether the configuration works.

### Configuring Azure AD Single Sign-On

The objective of this section is to enable Azure AD single sign-on in the Azure classic portal and to configure single sign-on in your Birst Agile Business Analytics application.



**To configure Azure AD single sign-on with Birst Agile Business Analytics, perform the following steps:**

1. In the Azure classic portal, on the **Birst Agile Business Analytics** application integration page, click **Configure single sign-on** to open the **Configure Single Sign-On**  dialog.

	![Configure Single Sign-On][6] 

2. On the **How would you like users to sign on to Birst Agile Business Analytics** page, select **Azure AD Single Sign-On**, and then click **Next**.

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_birst_03.png) 

3. On the **Configure App Settings** dialog page, perform the following steps:.

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_birst_04.png) 


    a. In the Sign On URL textbox, type the URL used by your users to sign-on to your Birst Agile Business Analytics application using the following pattern: **“https://login.bws.birst.com/SAMLSSO/Services.aspx?birst.idpid=TENANTIDPID”**.
    The URL is dependent on the datacenter that your Birst account is located. For US datacenter use **“https://login.bws.birst.com/SAMLSSO/Services.aspx?birst.idpid=TENANTIDPID”** and for Europe datacenter use https://login.eu1.birst.com/SAMLSSO/Services.aspx?birst.idpid=TENANTIDPID

	b. Check **Show advanced settings (optional).** to configure the **Reply URL (Optional)** with the same value as you have used for the Sign On Url without Birst id like **"https://login.bws.birst.com/SAMLSSO/Services.aspx"**
	
	c. Click **Next**.


4. On the **Configure single sign-on at Birst Agile Business Analytics** page, perform the following steps:

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_birst_05.png) 

    a. Click **Download certificate**, and then save the file on your computer.

    b. Click **Next**.


5. To get SSO configured for your application, contact your Birst Agile Business Analytics support team via [info@birst.com](emailTo:info@birst.com) and attach the downloaded certificate file to your email. Also please do provide the SAML SSO URL, Sign Out URL and Issuer URL so that they can be configured for SSO integration.


> [AZURE.NOTE] Please mention to Birst team that this integration need SHA256 Algorithm (SHA1 will not be supported) so that they can set the SSO on the appropriate server like **app2101** etc.



6. In the Azure classic portal, select the single sign-on configuration confirmation, and then click **Next**.
	
	![Azure AD Single Sign-On][10]

7. On the **Single sign-on confirmation** page, click **Complete**.  
  
	![Azure AD Single Sign-On][11]



### Creating an Azure AD test user
The objective of this section is to create a test user in the Azure classic portal called Britta Simon.

In the Users list, select **Britta Simon**.

![Create Azure AD User][20]

**To create a test user in Azure AD, perform the following steps:**

1. In the **Azure classic Portal**, on the left navigation pane, click **Active Directory**.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/create_aaduser_09.png) 

2. From the **Directory** list, select the directory for which you want to enable directory integration.

3. To display the list of users, in the menu on the top, click **Users**.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/create_aaduser_03.png) 

4. To open the **Add User** dialog, in the toolbar on the bottom, click **Add User**.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/create_aaduser_04.png) 

5. On the **Tell us about this user** dialog page, perform the following steps:

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/create_aaduser_05.png) 

    a. As Type Of User, select New user in your organization.

    b. In the User Name **textbox**, type **BrittaSimon**.

    c. Click **Next**.

6.  On the **User Profile** dialog page, perform the following steps:

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/create_aaduser_06.png) 

    a. In the **First Name** textbox, type **Britta**.  

    b. In the **Last Name** textbox, type, **Simon**.

    c. In the **Display Name** textbox, type **Britta Simon**.

    d. In the **Role** list, select **User**.

    e. Click **Next**.

7. On the **Get temporary password** dialog page, click **create**.

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/create_aaduser_07.png) 

8. On the **Get temporary password** dialog page, perform the following steps:

	![Creating an Azure AD test user](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/create_aaduser_08.png) 

    a. Write down the value of the **New Password**.

    b. Click **Complete**.   



### Creating a Birst Agile Business Analytics test user

The objective of this section is to create a user called Britta Simon in Birst Agile Business Analytics. Please work with Birst Agile Business Analytics support team to add the users in the Birst account. 


> [AZURE.NOTE] If you need to create an user manually, you need to 
> contact the Birst Agile Business Analytics support team.


### Assigning the Azure AD test user

The objective of this section is to enabling Britta Simon to use Azure single sign-on by granting her access to Birst Agile Business Analytics.

![Assign User][200] 

**To assign Britta Simon to Birst Agile Business Analytics, perform the following steps:**

1. On the Azure classic portal, to open the applications view, in the directory view, click **Applications** in the top menu.

	![Assign User][201] 

2. In the applications list, select **Birst Agile Business Analytics**.

	![Configure Single Sign-On](./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_birst_50.png) 

1. In the menu on the top, click **Users**.

	![Assign User][203] 

1. In the Users list, select **Britta Simon**.

2. In the toolbar on the bottom, click **Assign**.

	![Assign User][205]



### Testing Single Sign-On

The objective of this section is to test your Azure AD single sign-on configuration using the Access Panel.

When you click the Birst Agile Business Analytics tile in the Access Panel, you should get automatically signed-on to your Birst Agile Business Analytics application.


## Additional Resources

* [List of Tutorials on How to Integrate SaaS Apps with Azure Active Directory](active-directory-saas-tutorial-list.md)
* [What is application access and single sign-on with Azure Active Directory?](active-directory-appssoaccess-whatis.md)


<!--Image references-->

[1]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_01.png
[2]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_02.png
[3]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_03.png
[4]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_04.png

[6]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_05.png
[10]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_06.png
[11]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_07.png
[20]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_100.png

[200]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_200.png
[201]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_201.png
[203]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_203.png
[204]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_204.png
[205]: ./media/active-directory-saas-birst-tutorial/tutorial_general_205.png
