articles/cosmos-db/scripts/secure-regenerate-key-cli.md, before:

---
title: Azure CLI Script-Regenerate Azure Cosmos DB account key | Microsoft Docs
description: Azure CLI Script Sample - Regenerate an Azure Cosmos DB account key
services: cosmos-db
documentationcenter: cosmosdb
author: mimig1
manager: jhubbard
editor: ''
tags: azure-service-management

ms.assetid:
ms.service: cosmos-db
ms.custom: mvc
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.topic: sample
ms.tgt_pltfrm: cosmosdb
ms.workload: database
ms.date: 06/02/2017
ms.author: mimig
---

# Regenerate an Azure Cosmos DB account key using the Azure CLI

This sample regenerates any kind of Azure Cosmos DB account key using the Azure CLI. 

[!INCLUDE [sample-cli-install](../../../includes/sample-cli-install.md)]

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it.md](../../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

## Sample script

[!code-azurecli-interactive[main](../../../cli_scripts/cosmosdb/secure-cosmosdb-regenerate-keys/secure-cosmosdb-regenerate-keys.sh?highlight=27-31 "Regenerate Azure Cosmos DB account keys")]

## Clean up deployment

After the script sample has been run, the following command can be used to remove the resource group and all resources associated with it.

```azurecli-interactive
az group delete --name myResourceGroup
```

## Script explanation

This script uses the following commands. Each command in the table links to command specific documentation.

| Command | Notes |
|---|---|
| [az group create](/cli/azure/group#create) | Creates a resource group in which all resources are stored. |
| [az cosmosdb create](/cli/azure/cosmosdb/name#create) | Updates an Azure Cosmos DB account. |
| [az cosmosdb regenerate-key](/cli/azure/cosmosdb/regenerate-key) | Regeneratates Azure Cosmos DB account keys. |
| [az group delete](/cli/azure/resource#delete) | Deletes a resource group including all nested resources. |

## Next steps

For more information on the Azure CLI, see [Azure CLI documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/overview).

Additional Azure Cosmos DB CLI script samples can be found in the [Azure Cosmos DB CLI documentation](../cli-samples.md).

Commit message:

updating text surrounding new version of the include file

articles/cosmos-db/scripts/secure-regenerate-key-cli.md, after:

---
title: Azure CLI Script-Regenerate Azure Cosmos DB account key | Microsoft Docs
description: Azure CLI Script Sample - Regenerate an Azure Cosmos DB account key
services: cosmos-db
documentationcenter: cosmosdb
author: mimig1
manager: jhubbard
editor: ''
tags: azure-service-management

ms.assetid:
ms.service: cosmos-db
ms.custom: mvc
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.topic: sample
ms.tgt_pltfrm: cosmosdb
ms.workload: database
ms.date: 06/02/2017
ms.author: mimig
---

# Regenerate an Azure Cosmos DB account key using the Azure CLI

This sample regenerates any kind of Azure Cosmos DB account key using the Azure CLI. 

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it.md](../../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

If you choose to install and use the CLI locally, this topic requires that you are running the Azure CLI version 2.0 or later. Run `az --version` to find the version. If you need to install or upgrade, see [Install Azure CLI 2.0]( /cli/azure/install-azure-cli). 

## Sample script

[!code-azurecli-interactive[main](../../../cli_scripts/cosmosdb/secure-cosmosdb-regenerate-keys/secure-cosmosdb-regenerate-keys.sh?highlight=27-31 "Regenerate Azure Cosmos DB account keys")]

## Clean up deployment

After the script sample has been run, the following command can be used to remove the resource group and all resources associated with it.

```azurecli-interactive
az group delete --name myResourceGroup
```

## Script explanation

This script uses the following commands. Each command in the table links to command specific documentation.

| Command | Notes |
|---|---|
| [az group create](/cli/azure/group#create) | Creates a resource group in which all resources are stored. |
| [az cosmosdb create](/cli/azure/cosmosdb/name#create) | Updates an Azure Cosmos DB account. |
| [az cosmosdb regenerate-key](/cli/azure/cosmosdb/regenerate-key) | Regeneratates Azure Cosmos DB account keys. |
| [az group delete](/cli/azure/resource#delete) | Deletes a resource group including all nested resources. |

## Next steps

For more information on the Azure CLI, see [Azure CLI documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/overview).

Additional Azure Cosmos DB CLI script samples can be found in the [Azure Cosmos DB CLI documentation](../cli-samples.md).
