articles/service-fabric/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend.md, before:

<properties
   pageTitle="Create a web front-end for your application | Microsoft Azure"
   description="Expose your Service Fabric application to the web using an ASP.NET 5 Web API project and inter-service communication via ServiceProxy."
   services="service-fabric"
   documentationCenter=".net"
   authors="seanmck"
   manager="coreysa"
   editor=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="service-fabric"
   ms.devlang="dotNet"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="NA"
   ms.workload="NA"
   ms.date="10/17/2015"
   ms.author="seanmck"/>

# Build a web service front-end for your Application

By default, Service Fabric services do not provide a public interface to the web. To expose your application's functionality to HTTP clients, you will need to create a web project to act as entry point and then communicate from there to your individual services.

In this tutorial, we will walk through adding an ASP.NET 5 Web API front-end to an application which already includes a stateful service. If you have not already done so, consider walking through [Creating your first application in Visual Studio](service-fabric-create-your-first-application-in-visual-studio.md) before starting this tutorial.

## Add an ASP.NET 5 service to your application

ASP.NET 5 is a lightweight, cross-platform web development framework, enabling the creation of modern Web UI and Web APIs. Let's add an ASP.NET Web API project to our existing application.

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click on the application project and choose **New Fabric Service**.

	![Adding a new service to an existing application][vs-add-new-service]

2. In the new service dialog, choose ASP.NET 5 Web Service and give it a name.

	![Choosing ASP.NET Web Service in the new service dialog][vs-new-service-dialog]

3. The next dialog provides a set of ASP.NET 5 project templates. Note that these are the same templates you would see if you created an ASP.NET 5 project outside of a Service Fabric application. For this tutorial, we will choose Web API but you can apply the same concepts to building a full web application.

	![Choosing ASP.NET project type][vs-new-aspnet-project-dialog]

  Once your Web API project is created, you will have two services in your application. As you continue to build your application, you will add more services in exactly the same way and each can be independently versioned and upgraded.

## Run the application

To get a sense of what we've done, let's deploy the new application and take a look at the default behavior provided by the ASP.NET 5 Web API template.

1. Hit F5 in Visual Studio to debug the app.

2. When deployment is complete, Visual Studio will launch the browser to the root of the ASP.NET Web API service, something like http://localhost:33003 (the port number is randomly assigned and may be different on your machine). The ASP.NET 5 Web API template doesn't provide default behavior for the root so you will get an error in the browser.

3. Add `/api/values` to the location in the browser. This will invoke the `Get` method on the ValuesController in the Web API template and return the default response provided by the template, a JSON array containing two strings:

  ![Default values returned from ASP.NET 5 Web API template][browser-aspnet-template-values]

  By the end of the tutorial, we will have replaced these default values with the most recent counter value from our stateful service.

## Connect the services

Service Fabric provides complete flexibility in how you communicate with reliable services. Within a single application, you might have services which are accessible via TCP, others via a HTTP REST API, and still others via web sockets. For background on the options available and the tradeoffs involved, see [Communicating with Services](service-fabric-connect-and-communicate-with-services.md). In this tutorial, we will follow one of the simpler approaches and use the `ServiceProxy`/`ServiceCommunicationListener` classes provided in the SDK.

In the `ServiceProxy` approach (modeled on remote procedure calls or RPC) you define an interface to act as the public contract for the service and then use that interface to generate a proxy class for interacting with the service.

### Create the interface

We will start by creating the interface to act as the contract between the stateful service and its clients, including the ASP.NET 5 project.

1. In Solution Explorer, right click the your solution and choose **Add > New Project**.

2. Choose the Visual C# entry in the left navigation pane and then select the **Class Library** template. Ensure that the .NET framework version is set to 4.5.1.

  ![Creating an interface project for your stateful service][vs-add-class-library-project]

3. In order for an interface to be usable by `ServiceProxy`, it must derive from the IService interface, which is included in one of the Service Fabric NuGet packages. To add the package, right-click your new class library project and choose **Manage NuGet Packages**.

4. Ensure that the **Include Prerelease** checkbox is selected, then search for **Microsoft.ServiceFabric.Services** package and install it.

  ![Adding the Services NuGet package][vs-services-nuget-package]

5. In the class library, create an interface with a single method, `GetCountAsync`, and extend the interface from IService.

  ```c#
  namespace MyStatefulService.Interfaces
  {
      using Microsoft.ServiceFabric.Services;

      public interface ICounter: IService
      {
          Task<long> GetCountAsync();
      }
  }
  ```

### Implement the interface in your stateful service

Now that we have defined the interface, we need to implement it in our stateful service.

1. In your stateful service, add a reference to the class library project containing the interface.

  ![Adding a reference to the class library project in the stateful service][vs-add-class-library-reference]

2. Locate the class which inherits from `StatefulService`, such as `MyStatefulService`, and extend it to implement the `ICounter` interface.

  ```c#
  public class MyStatefulService : StatefulService, ICounter
  {        
        // ...
  }
  ```
3. Now implement the single method defined the `ICounter` interface, `GetCountAsync`.

  ```c#
  public async Task<long> GetCountAsync()
  {
    var myDictionary =
      await this.StateManager.GetOrAddAsync<IReliableDictionary<string, long>>("myDictionary");

      using (var tx = this.StateManager.CreateTransaction())
      {          
          var result = await myDictionary.TryGetValueAsync(tx, "Counter-1");
          return result.HasValue ? result.Value : 0;
      }
  }
  ```

### Expose the stateful service using ServiceCommunicationListener

With the `ICounter` interface implemented, the final step in enabling the stateful service to be callable from other services is to open a communication channel. For stateful services, Service Fabric provides an overrideable method called `CreateServiceReplicaListeners` where you can specify one or more communication listeners based on the type of communication you want to enable to your service.

>[AZURE.NOTE] The equivalent method for opening a communication channel to stateless services is called `CreateServiceInstanceListeners`.

In this case, we will provide a `ServiceCommunicationListener`, which creates an RPC endpoint callable from clients using the `ServiceProxy`.

```c#
protected override IEnumerable<ServiceReplicaListener> CreateServiceReplicaListeners()
{
    return new List<ServiceReplicaListener>()
    {
        new ServiceReplicaListener(
            (initParams) =>
                new ServiceCommunicationListener<ICounter>(initParams, this))
    };
}
```


### Use the ServiceProxy to interact with the service

Our stateful service is now ready to receive traffic from other services so all that remains is adding the code to communicate with it from the ASP.NET web service.

1. In your ASP.NET project, add a reference to the class library containing the `ICounter` interface.

2. Add the Microsoft.ServiceFabric.Services package to the ASP.NET project, just as you did for the class library project earlier. This will provide the `ServiceProxy` class.

3. In the controllers folder, open the `ValuesController` class. Note that the `Get` method currently just returns a hard-coded string array of "value1" and "value2", which matches what we saw earlier in the browser. Replace this implementation with the following code:

  ```c#
  public async Task<IEnumerable<string>> Get()
  {
      ICounter counter =
          ServiceProxy.Create<ICounter>(0, new Uri("fabric:/MyApp/MyStatefulService"));

      long count = await counter.GetCountAsync();

      return new string[] { count.ToString() };
  }
  ```

  The first line of code is the key one. To create the ICounter proxy to the stateful service, you need to provide two pieces of information: a partition ID and the name of the service.

  Partitioning enables you to scale stateful services by breaking up their state into different buckets based on a key that you define, such as customer ID or post code.  In  of our trivial application, the stateful service only has one partition so the key doesn't matter - any key that you provide will lead to the same partition.

  The service name is a URI of the form fabric:/&lt;application_name&gt;/&lt;service_name&gt;.

  With these two pieces of information, Service Fabric can uniquely identify the machine to which requests should be sent. The `ServiceProxy` will also seamlessly handle the case where the machine hosting our stateful service partition fails and another machine must be promoted to take its place. This abstraction makes writing the client code to deal with other services significantly simpler.

  Once we have the proxy, we simply invoke the `GetCountAsync` method and return its result.

4. Hit F5 again to run the modified application. As before, Visual Studio will automatically launch the browser to the root of the web project. Add the "api/values" path and you should see the current counter value returned.

  ![The stateful counter value displayed in the browser][browser-aspnet-counter-value]

  Refresh the browser periodically to see the counter value update.


## What about actors?

This tutorial focused on adding a web front-end that communicated with a stateful service, but you can follow a very similar model to talk to actors. In fact, it is somewhat simpler.

When you create an actor project, Visual Studio automatically generates an interface project for you. You can use that interface to generate an actor proxy in the web project to communicate with the actor. The communication channel is provided automatically so you do not need to do anything equivalent to establishing a `ServiceCommunicationListener` as you did for the stateful service in this tutorial.

## Next steps

- [Create a cluster in Azure deploying your application to the cloud](service-fabric-cluster-creation-via-portal.md)
- [Learn more about communicating with services](service-fabric-connect-and-communicate-with-services.md)
- [Learn more about partitioning stateful services](service-fabric-concepts-partitioning.md)

<!-- Image References -->

[vs-add-new-service]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/vs-add-new-service.png
[vs-new-service-dialog]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/vs-new-service-dialog.png
[vs-new-aspnet-project-dialog]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/vs-new-aspnet-project-dialog.png
[browser-aspnet-template-values]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/browser-aspnet-template-values.png
[vs-add-class-library-project]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/vs-add-class-library-project.png
[vs-add-class-library-reference]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/vs-add-class-library-reference.png
[vs-services-nuget-package]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/vs-services-nuget-package.png
[browser-aspnet-counter-value]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/browser-aspnet-counter-value.png

Commit message:

Added note about running web services locally

articles/service-fabric/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend.md, after:

<properties
   pageTitle="Create a web front-end for your application | Microsoft Azure"
   description="Expose your Service Fabric application to the web using an ASP.NET 5 Web API project and inter-service communication via ServiceProxy."
   services="service-fabric"
   documentationCenter=".net"
   authors="seanmck"
   manager="coreysa"
   editor=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="service-fabric"
   ms.devlang="dotNet"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="NA"
   ms.workload="NA"
   ms.date="10/17/2015"
   ms.author="seanmck"/>

# Build a web service front-end for your Application

By default, Service Fabric services do not provide a public interface to the web. To expose your application's functionality to HTTP clients, you will need to create a web project to act as entry point and then communicate from there to your individual services.

In this tutorial, we will walk through adding an ASP.NET 5 Web API front-end to an application which already includes a stateful service. If you have not already done so, consider walking through [Creating your first application in Visual Studio](service-fabric-create-your-first-application-in-visual-studio.md) before starting this tutorial.

## Add an ASP.NET 5 service to your application

ASP.NET 5 is a lightweight, cross-platform web development framework, enabling the creation of modern Web UI and Web APIs. Let's add an ASP.NET Web API project to our existing application.

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click on the application project and choose **New Fabric Service**.

	![Adding a new service to an existing application][vs-add-new-service]

2. In the new service dialog, choose ASP.NET 5 Web Service and give it a name.

	![Choosing ASP.NET Web Service in the new service dialog][vs-new-service-dialog]

3. The next dialog provides a set of ASP.NET 5 project templates. Note that these are the same templates you would see if you created an ASP.NET 5 project outside of a Service Fabric application. For this tutorial, we will choose Web API but you can apply the same concepts to building a full web application.

	![Choosing ASP.NET project type][vs-new-aspnet-project-dialog]

  Once your Web API project is created, you will have two services in your application. As you continue to build your application, you will add more services in exactly the same way and each can be independently versioned and upgraded.

## Run the application

To get a sense of what we've done, let's deploy the new application and take a look at the default behavior provided by the ASP.NET 5 Web API template.

1. Hit F5 in Visual Studio to debug the app.

2. When deployment is complete, Visual Studio will launch the browser to the root of the ASP.NET Web API service, something like http://localhost:33003 (the port number is randomly assigned and may be different on your machine). The ASP.NET 5 Web API template doesn't provide default behavior for the root so you will get an error in the browser.

3. Add `/api/values` to the location in the browser. This will invoke the `Get` method on the ValuesController in the Web API template and return the default response provided by the template, a JSON array containing two strings:

  ![Default values returned from ASP.NET 5 Web API template][browser-aspnet-template-values]

  By the end of the tutorial, we will have replaced these default values with the most recent counter value from our stateful service.

## Connect the services

Service Fabric provides complete flexibility in how you communicate with reliable services. Within a single application, you might have services which are accessible via TCP, others via a HTTP REST API, and still others via web sockets. For background on the options available and the tradeoffs involved, see [Communicating with Services](service-fabric-connect-and-communicate-with-services.md). In this tutorial, we will follow one of the simpler approaches and use the `ServiceProxy`/`ServiceCommunicationListener` classes provided in the SDK.

In the `ServiceProxy` approach (modeled on remote procedure calls or RPC) you define an interface to act as the public contract for the service and then use that interface to generate a proxy class for interacting with the service.

### Create the interface

We will start by creating the interface to act as the contract between the stateful service and its clients, including the ASP.NET 5 project.

1. In Solution Explorer, right click the your solution and choose **Add > New Project**.

2. Choose the Visual C# entry in the left navigation pane and then select the **Class Library** template. Ensure that the .NET framework version is set to 4.5.1.

  ![Creating an interface project for your stateful service][vs-add-class-library-project]

3. In order for an interface to be usable by `ServiceProxy`, it must derive from the IService interface, which is included in one of the Service Fabric NuGet packages. To add the package, right-click your new class library project and choose **Manage NuGet Packages**.

4. Ensure that the **Include Prerelease** checkbox is selected, then search for **Microsoft.ServiceFabric.Services** package and install it.

  ![Adding the Services NuGet package][vs-services-nuget-package]

5. In the class library, create an interface with a single method, `GetCountAsync`, and extend the interface from IService.

  ```c#
  namespace MyStatefulService.Interfaces
  {
      using Microsoft.ServiceFabric.Services;

      public interface ICounter: IService
      {
          Task<long> GetCountAsync();
      }
  }
  ```

### Implement the interface in your stateful service

Now that we have defined the interface, we need to implement it in our stateful service.

1. In your stateful service, add a reference to the class library project containing the interface.

  ![Adding a reference to the class library project in the stateful service][vs-add-class-library-reference]

2. Locate the class which inherits from `StatefulService`, such as `MyStatefulService`, and extend it to implement the `ICounter` interface.

  ```c#
  public class MyStatefulService : StatefulService, ICounter
  {        
        // ...
  }
  ```
3. Now implement the single method defined the `ICounter` interface, `GetCountAsync`.

  ```c#
  public async Task<long> GetCountAsync()
  {
    var myDictionary =
      await this.StateManager.GetOrAddAsync<IReliableDictionary<string, long>>("myDictionary");

      using (var tx = this.StateManager.CreateTransaction())
      {          
          var result = await myDictionary.TryGetValueAsync(tx, "Counter-1");
          return result.HasValue ? result.Value : 0;
      }
  }
  ```

### Expose the stateful service using ServiceCommunicationListener

With the `ICounter` interface implemented, the final step in enabling the stateful service to be callable from other services is to open a communication channel. For stateful services, Service Fabric provides an overrideable method called `CreateServiceReplicaListeners` where you can specify one or more communication listeners based on the type of communication you want to enable to your service.

>[AZURE.NOTE] The equivalent method for opening a communication channel to stateless services is called `CreateServiceInstanceListeners`.

In this case, we will provide a `ServiceCommunicationListener`, which creates an RPC endpoint callable from clients using the `ServiceProxy`.

```c#
protected override IEnumerable<ServiceReplicaListener> CreateServiceReplicaListeners()
{
    return new List<ServiceReplicaListener>()
    {
        new ServiceReplicaListener(
            (initParams) =>
                new ServiceCommunicationListener<ICounter>(initParams, this))
    };
}
```


### Use the ServiceProxy to interact with the service

Our stateful service is now ready to receive traffic from other services so all that remains is adding the code to communicate with it from the ASP.NET web service.

1. In your ASP.NET project, add a reference to the class library containing the `ICounter` interface.

2. Add the Microsoft.ServiceFabric.Services package to the ASP.NET project, just as you did for the class library project earlier. This will provide the `ServiceProxy` class.

3. In the controllers folder, open the `ValuesController` class. Note that the `Get` method currently just returns a hard-coded string array of "value1" and "value2", which matches what we saw earlier in the browser. Replace this implementation with the following code:

  ```c#
  public async Task<IEnumerable<string>> Get()
  {
      ICounter counter =
          ServiceProxy.Create<ICounter>(0, new Uri("fabric:/MyApp/MyStatefulService"));

      long count = await counter.GetCountAsync();

      return new string[] { count.ToString() };
  }
  ```

  The first line of code is the key one. To create the ICounter proxy to the stateful service, you need to provide two pieces of information: a partition ID and the name of the service.

  Partitioning enables you to scale stateful services by breaking up their state into different buckets based on a key that you define, such as customer ID or post code.  In  of our trivial application, the stateful service only has one partition so the key doesn't matter - any key that you provide will lead to the same partition.

  The service name is a URI of the form fabric:/&lt;application_name&gt;/&lt;service_name&gt;.

  With these two pieces of information, Service Fabric can uniquely identify the machine to which requests should be sent. The `ServiceProxy` will also seamlessly handle the case where the machine hosting our stateful service partition fails and another machine must be promoted to take its place. This abstraction makes writing the client code to deal with other services significantly simpler.

  Once we have the proxy, we simply invoke the `GetCountAsync` method and return its result.

4. Hit F5 again to run the modified application. As before, Visual Studio will automatically launch the browser to the root of the web project. Add the "api/values" path and you should see the current counter value returned.

  ![The stateful counter value displayed in the browser][browser-aspnet-counter-value]

  Refresh the browser periodically to see the counter value update.


## What about actors?

This tutorial focused on adding a web front-end that communicated with a stateful service, but you can follow a very similar model to talk to actors. In fact, it is somewhat simpler.

When you create an actor project, Visual Studio automatically generates an interface project for you. You can use that interface to generate an actor proxy in the web project to communicate with the actor. The communication channel is provided automatically so you do not need to do anything equivalent to establishing a `ServiceCommunicationListener` as you did for the stateful service in this tutorial.

## Running web services on a local cluster

In general, you can deploy exactly the same Service Fabric application to a multi-machine cluster that you deployed on your local cluster and be highly confident that it will work as you expect, since your local cluster is simply a five node configuration collapsed to a single machine.

When it comes to web services, however, there is one key nuance. When your cluster sits behind a load balancer, as it does in Azure, you must ensure that your web services are deployed on every machine since the load balancer will simply round-robin traffic across the machines. This can be done by setting the `InstanceCount` for the service to the special value of -1. By contrast, when running locally you need to ensure that only one instance of the service is running; otherwise you will run into conflicts from multiple processes listening on the same path and port. As a result, the web service instance count should be set to 1 for local deployments.

To learn how to configure different values for different environment, see [Managing application parameters for multiple environments](service-fabric-manage-multiple-environment-app-configuration.md).

## Next steps

- [Create a cluster in Azure deploying your application to the cloud](service-fabric-cluster-creation-via-portal.md)
- [Learn more about communicating with services](service-fabric-connect-and-communicate-with-services.md)
- [Learn more about partitioning stateful services](service-fabric-concepts-partitioning.md)

<!-- Image References -->

[vs-add-new-service]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/vs-add-new-service.png
[vs-new-service-dialog]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/vs-new-service-dialog.png
[vs-new-aspnet-project-dialog]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/vs-new-aspnet-project-dialog.png
[browser-aspnet-template-values]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/browser-aspnet-template-values.png
[vs-add-class-library-project]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/vs-add-class-library-project.png
[vs-add-class-library-reference]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/vs-add-class-library-reference.png
[vs-services-nuget-package]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/vs-services-nuget-package.png
[browser-aspnet-counter-value]: ./media/service-fabric-add-a-web-frontend/browser-aspnet-counter-value.png
