articles/hdinsight/hdinsight-hadoop-use-hive-beeline.md, before:

<properties
   pageTitle="Use Beeline to work with Hive on HDInsight (Hadoop) | Microsoft Azure"
   description="Learn how to use SSH to connect to a Hadoop cluster in HDInsight, and then interactively submit Hive queries by using Beeline. Beeline is a utility for working with HiveServer2 over JDBC."
   services="hdinsight"
   documentationCenter=""
   authors="Blackmist"
   manager="paulettm"
   editor="cgronlun"
	tags="azure-portal"/>

<tags
   ms.service="hdinsight"
   ms.devlang="na"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
   ms.workload="big-data"
   ms.date="10/05/2015"
   ms.author="larryfr"/>

#Use Hive with Hadoop in HDInsight with Beeline

[AZURE.INCLUDE [hive-selector](../../includes/hdinsight-selector-use-hive.md)]

In this article, you will learn how to use Secure Shell (SSH) to connect to a Linux-based HDInsight cluster, and then interactively submit Hive queries by using the [Beeline](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/HiveServer2+Clients#HiveServer2Clients-Beeline–NewCommandLineShell) command-line tool.

> [AZURE.NOTE] Beeline used JDBC to connect to Hive. For more information on using JDBC with Hive, see [Connect to Hive on Azure HDInsight using the Hive JDBC driver](hdinsight-connect-hive-jdbc-driver.md).

##<a id="prereq"></a>Prerequisites

To complete the steps in this article, you will need the following:

* A Linux-based Hadoop on HDInsight cluster.

* An SSH client. Linux, Unix, and Mac OS should come with an SSH client. Windows users must download a client, such as [PuTTY](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html).

##<a id="ssh"></a>Connect with SSH

Connect to the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of your HDInsight cluster by using the SSH command. The FQDN will be the name you gave the cluster, then **.azurehdinsight.net**. For example, the following would connect to a cluster named **myhdinsight**:

	ssh admin@myhdinsight-ssh.azurehdinsight.net

**If you provided a certificate key for SSH authentication** when you created the HDInsight cluster, you may need to specify the location of the private key on your client system:

	ssh admin@myhdinsight-ssh.azurehdinsight.net -i ~/mykey.key

**If you provided a password for SSH authentication** when you created the HDInsight cluster, you will need to provide the password when prompted.

For more information on using SSH with HDInsight, see [Use SSH with Linux-based Hadoop on HDInsight from Linux, OS X, and Unix](hdinsight-hadoop-linux-use-ssh-unix.md).

###PuTTY (Windows-based clients)

Windows does not provide a built-in SSH client. We recommend using **PuTTY**, which can be downloaded from [http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html).

For more information on using PuTTY, see [Use SSH with Linux-based Hadoop on HDInsight from Windows ](hdinsight-hadoop-linux-use-ssh-windows.md).

##<a id="beeline"></a>Use the Beeline command

2. Once connected, start the Hive CLI by using the following command:

        beeline

2. From the `beeline>` prompt, use the following to connect to the HiveServer2 service:

        !connect jdbc:hive2://headnode0:10001/;transportMode=http admin

    When prompted, enter the password for the administrator (admin) account for your HDInsight cluster. Once the connection is established, the prompt will change to the following:
    
        jdbc:hive2://headnode0:10001/>

3. Beeline commands usually begin with a `!` character, for example `!help` displays help. However the `!` can often be ommited. For example, `help` will also work.

    If you view help, you will notice `!sql`, which is used to execute HiveQL statements. However, HiveQL is so commonly used that you can ommit the preceeding `!sql`. The following two statements have exactly the same results; displaying the tables currently available through Hive:
    
        !sql show tables;
        show tables;
    
    On a new cluster, only one table should be listed: __hivesampletable__.

4. Use the following to display the schema for the hivesampletable:

        describe hivesampletable;
        
    This will return the following information:
    
        +-----------------------+------------+----------+--+
        |       col_name        | data_type  | comment  |
        +-----------------------+------------+----------+--+
        | clientid              | string     |          |
        | querytime             | string     |          |
        | market                | string     |          |
        | deviceplatform        | string     |          |
        | devicemake            | string     |          |
        | devicemodel           | string     |          |
        | state                 | string     |          |
        | country               | string     |          |
        | querydwelltime        | double     |          |
        | sessionid             | bigint     |          |
        | sessionpagevieworder  | bigint     |          |
        +-----------------------+------------+----------+--+

    This displays the columns in the table. While we could perform some queries against this data, let's instead create a brand new table to demonstrate how to load data into Hive and apply a schema.
    
5. Enter the following statements to create a new table named **log4jLogs** by using sample data provided with the HDInsight cluster:

        DROP TABLE log4jLogs;
        CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE log4jLogs (t1 string, t2 string, t3 string, t4 string, t5 string, t6 string, t7 string)
        ROW FORMAT DELIMITED FIELDS TERMINATED BY ' '
        STORED AS TEXTFILE LOCATION 'wasb:///example/data/';
        SELECT t4 AS sev, COUNT(*) AS count FROM log4jLogs WHERE t4 = '[ERROR]' AND INPUT__FILE__NAME LIKE '%.log' GROUP BY t4;

    These statements perform the following actions:

    * **DROP TABLE** - Deletes the table and the data file, in case the table already exists.
    * **CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE** - Creates a new 'external' table in Hive. External tables only store the table definition in Hive. The data is left in the original location.
    * **ROW FORMAT** - Tells Hive how the data is formatted. In this case, the fields in each log are separated by a space.
    * **STORED AS TEXTFILE LOCATION** - Tells Hive where the data is stored (the example/data directory), and that it is stored as text.
    * **SELECT** - Selects a count of all rows where column **t4** contains the value **[ERROR]**. This should return a value of **3** as there are three rows that contain this value.
    * **INPUT__FILE__NAME LIKE '%.log'** - Tells Hive that we should only return data from files ending in .log. Normally, you would only have data with the same schema within the same folder when querying with hive, however this example log file is stored with other data formats.

    > [AZURE.NOTE] External tables should be used when you expect the underlying data to be updated by an external source, such as an automated data upload process, or by another MapReduce operation, but always want Hive queries to use the latest data.
    >
    > Dropping an external table does **not** delete the data, only the table definition.
    
    The output of this command should be similar to the following:
    
        INFO  : Tez session hasn't been created yet. Opening session
        INFO  :
        
        INFO  : Status: Running (Executing on YARN cluster with App id application_1443698635933_0001)
        
        INFO  : Map 1: -/-      Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 0/1      Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 0/1      Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 0/1      Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 0/1      Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 0(+1)/1  Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 0(+1)/1  Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 1/1      Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 1/1      Reducer 2: 0(+1)/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 1/1      Reducer 2: 1/1
        +----------+--------+--+
        |   sev    | count  |
        +----------+--------+--+
        | [ERROR]  | 3      |
        +----------+--------+--+
        1 row selected (47.351 seconds)

4. To exit Beeline, use `!quit`.

##<a id="file"></a>Run a HiveQL file

Beeline can also be used to run a file that contains HiveQL statements. Use the following steps to create a file, then run it using Beeline.

1. Use the following command to create a new file named __query.hql__:

        nano query.hql
        
2. Once the editor opens, use the following as the contents of the file. This query will create a new 'internal' table named **errorLogs**:

        CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS errorLogs (t1 string, t2 string, t3 string, t4 string, t5 string, t6 string, t7 string) STORED AS ORC;
        INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE errorLogs SELECT t1, t2, t3, t4, t5, t6, t7 FROM log4jLogs WHERE t4 = '[ERROR]' AND INPUT__FILE__NAME LIKE '%.log';

    These statements perform the following actions:

    * **CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS** - Creates a table, if it does not already exist. Since the **EXTERNAL** keyword is not used, this is an internal table, which is stored in the Hive data warehouse and is managed completely by Hive.
    * **STORED AS ORC** - Stores the data in Optimized Row Columnar (ORC) format. This is a highly optimized and efficient format for storing Hive data.
    * **INSERT OVERWRITE ... SELECT** - Selects rows from the **log4jLogs** table that contain **[ERROR]**, then inserts the data into the **errorLogs** table.
    
    > [AZURE.NOTE] Unlike external tables, dropping an internal table will delete the underlying data as well.
    
3. To save the file, use __Ctrl__+___X__, then enter __Y__, and finally __Enter__.

4. Use the following to run the file using Beeline:

        beeline -u 'jdbc:hive2://headnode0:10001/;transportMode=http' -n admin -p GiantR0b0! -f query.hql

5. To verify that the **errorLogs** table was created, start Beeline and connect to HiveServer2, then use the following statement to return all the rows from **errorLogs**:

        SELECT * from errorLogs;

    Three rows of data should be returned, all containing **[ERROR]** in column t4:
    
        +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+--+
        | errorlogs.t1  | errorlogs.t2  | errorlogs.t3  | errorlogs.t4  | errorlogs.t5  | errorlogs.t6  | errorlogs.t7  |
        +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+--+
        | 2012-02-03    | 18:35:34      | SampleClass0  | [ERROR]       | incorrect     | id            |               |
        | 2012-02-03    | 18:55:54      | SampleClass1  | [ERROR]       | incorrect     | id            |               |
        | 2012-02-03    | 19:25:27      | SampleClass4  | [ERROR]       | incorrect     | id            |               |
        +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+--+
        3 rows selected (1.538 seconds)

##<a id="summary"></a>Summary

As you can see, the Beeline command provides an easy way to interactively run Hive queries on an HDInsight cluster.

##<a id="nextsteps"></a>Next steps

For general information on Hive in HDInsight:

* [Use Hive with Hadoop on HDInsight](hdinsight-use-hive.md)

For information on other ways you can work with Hadoop on HDInsight:

* [Use Pig with Hadoop on HDInsight](hdinsight-use-pig.md)

* [Use MapReduce with Hadoop on HDInsight](hdinsight-use-mapreduce.md)

[hdinsight-sdk-documentation]: http://msdnstage.redmond.corp.microsoft.com/library/dn479185.aspx

[azure-purchase-options]: http://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/purchase-options/
[azure-member-offers]: http://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/member-offers/
[azure-free-trial]: http://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/

[apache-tez]: http://tez.apache.org
[apache-hive]: http://hive.apache.org/
[apache-log4j]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Log4j
[hive-on-tez-wiki]: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/Hive+on+Tez
[import-to-excel]: http://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/hdinsight-connect-excel-power-query/


[hdinsight-use-oozie]: hdinsight-use-oozie.md
[hdinsight-analyze-flight-data]: hdinsight-analyze-flight-delay-data.md

[putty]: http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html

[hdinsight-storage]: hdinsight-use-blob-storage.md

[hdinsight-provision]: hdinsight-provision-clusters.md
[hdinsight-submit-jobs]: hdinsight-submit-hadoop-jobs-programmatically.md
[hdinsight-upload-data]: hdinsight-upload-data.md
[hdinsight-get-started]: hdinsight-get-started.md


[powershell-here-strings]: http://technet.microsoft.com/library/ee692792.aspx

[image-hdi-hive-powershell]: ./media/hdinsight-use-hive/HDI.HIVE.PowerShell.png
[img-hdi-hive-powershell-output]: ./media/hdinsight-use-hive/HDI.Hive.PowerShell.Output.png
[image-hdi-hive-architecture]: ./media/hdinsight-use-hive/HDI.Hive.Architecture.png

Commit message:

refactoring for new rules about node names

articles/hdinsight/hdinsight-hadoop-use-hive-beeline.md, after:

<properties
   pageTitle="Use Beeline to work with Hive on HDInsight (Hadoop) | Microsoft Azure"
   description="Learn how to use SSH to connect to a Hadoop cluster in HDInsight, and then interactively submit Hive queries by using Beeline. Beeline is a utility for working with HiveServer2 over JDBC."
   services="hdinsight"
   documentationCenter=""
   authors="Blackmist"
   manager="paulettm"
   editor="cgronlun"
	tags="azure-portal"/>

<tags
   ms.service="hdinsight"
   ms.devlang="na"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
   ms.workload="big-data"
   ms.date="10/26/2015"
   ms.author="larryfr"/>

#Use Hive with Hadoop in HDInsight with Beeline

[AZURE.INCLUDE [hive-selector](../../includes/hdinsight-selector-use-hive.md)]

In this article, you will learn how to use Secure Shell (SSH) to connect to a Linux-based HDInsight cluster, and then interactively submit Hive queries by using the [Beeline](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/HiveServer2+Clients#HiveServer2Clients-Beeline–NewCommandLineShell) command-line tool.

> [AZURE.NOTE] Beeline used JDBC to connect to Hive. For more information on using JDBC with Hive, see [Connect to Hive on Azure HDInsight using the Hive JDBC driver](hdinsight-connect-hive-jdbc-driver.md).

##<a id="prereq"></a>Prerequisites

To complete the steps in this article, you will need the following:

* A Linux-based Hadoop on HDInsight cluster.

* An SSH client. Linux, Unix, and Mac OS should come with an SSH client. Windows users must download a client, such as [PuTTY](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html).

##<a id="ssh"></a>Connect with SSH

Connect to the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of your HDInsight cluster by using the SSH command. The FQDN will be the name you gave the cluster, then **.azurehdinsight.net**. For example, the following would connect to a cluster named **myhdinsight**:

	ssh admin@myhdinsight-ssh.azurehdinsight.net

**If you provided a certificate key for SSH authentication** when you created the HDInsight cluster, you may need to specify the location of the private key on your client system:

	ssh admin@myhdinsight-ssh.azurehdinsight.net -i ~/mykey.key

**If you provided a password for SSH authentication** when you created the HDInsight cluster, you will need to provide the password when prompted.

For more information on using SSH with HDInsight, see [Use SSH with Linux-based Hadoop on HDInsight from Linux, OS X, and Unix](hdinsight-hadoop-linux-use-ssh-unix.md).

###PuTTY (Windows-based clients)

Windows does not provide a built-in SSH client. We recommend using **PuTTY**, which can be downloaded from [http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html).

For more information on using PuTTY, see [Use SSH with Linux-based Hadoop on HDInsight from Windows ](hdinsight-hadoop-linux-use-ssh-windows.md).

##<a id="beeline"></a>Use the Beeline command

1. Once connected, use the following to get the hostname of the head node:

        hostname -f
    
    Save the returned host name, as it will be used later when connecting to HiveServer2 from Beeline.
    
2. Start the Hive CLI by using the following command:

        beeline

2. From the `beeline>` prompt, use the following to connect to the HiveServer2 service. Replace __HOSTNAME__ with the host name returned for the head node ealier:

        !connect jdbc:hive2://HOSTNAME:10001/;transportMode=http admin

    When prompted, enter the password for the administrator (admin) account for your HDInsight cluster. Once the connection is established, the prompt will change to the following:
    
        jdbc:hive2://HOSTNAME:10001/>

3. Beeline commands usually begin with a `!` character, for example `!help` displays help. However the `!` can often be ommited. For example, `help` will also work.

    If you view help, you will notice `!sql`, which is used to execute HiveQL statements. However, HiveQL is so commonly used that you can ommit the preceeding `!sql`. The following two statements have exactly the same results; displaying the tables currently available through Hive:
    
        !sql show tables;
        show tables;
    
    On a new cluster, only one table should be listed: __hivesampletable__.

4. Use the following to display the schema for the hivesampletable:

        describe hivesampletable;
        
    This will return the following information:
    
        +-----------------------+------------+----------+--+
        |       col_name        | data_type  | comment  |
        +-----------------------+------------+----------+--+
        | clientid              | string     |          |
        | querytime             | string     |          |
        | market                | string     |          |
        | deviceplatform        | string     |          |
        | devicemake            | string     |          |
        | devicemodel           | string     |          |
        | state                 | string     |          |
        | country               | string     |          |
        | querydwelltime        | double     |          |
        | sessionid             | bigint     |          |
        | sessionpagevieworder  | bigint     |          |
        +-----------------------+------------+----------+--+

    This displays the columns in the table. While we could perform some queries against this data, let's instead create a brand new table to demonstrate how to load data into Hive and apply a schema.
    
5. Enter the following statements to create a new table named **log4jLogs** by using sample data provided with the HDInsight cluster:

        DROP TABLE log4jLogs;
        CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE log4jLogs (t1 string, t2 string, t3 string, t4 string, t5 string, t6 string, t7 string)
        ROW FORMAT DELIMITED FIELDS TERMINATED BY ' '
        STORED AS TEXTFILE LOCATION 'wasb:///example/data/';
        SELECT t4 AS sev, COUNT(*) AS count FROM log4jLogs WHERE t4 = '[ERROR]' AND INPUT__FILE__NAME LIKE '%.log' GROUP BY t4;

    These statements perform the following actions:

    * **DROP TABLE** - Deletes the table and the data file, in case the table already exists.
    * **CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE** - Creates a new 'external' table in Hive. External tables only store the table definition in Hive. The data is left in the original location.
    * **ROW FORMAT** - Tells Hive how the data is formatted. In this case, the fields in each log are separated by a space.
    * **STORED AS TEXTFILE LOCATION** - Tells Hive where the data is stored (the example/data directory), and that it is stored as text.
    * **SELECT** - Selects a count of all rows where column **t4** contains the value **[ERROR]**. This should return a value of **3** as there are three rows that contain this value.
    * **INPUT__FILE__NAME LIKE '%.log'** - Tells Hive that we should only return data from files ending in .log. Normally, you would only have data with the same schema within the same folder when querying with hive, however this example log file is stored with other data formats.

    > [AZURE.NOTE] External tables should be used when you expect the underlying data to be updated by an external source, such as an automated data upload process, or by another MapReduce operation, but always want Hive queries to use the latest data.
    >
    > Dropping an external table does **not** delete the data, only the table definition.
    
    The output of this command should be similar to the following:
    
        INFO  : Tez session hasn't been created yet. Opening session
        INFO  :
        
        INFO  : Status: Running (Executing on YARN cluster with App id application_1443698635933_0001)
        
        INFO  : Map 1: -/-      Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 0/1      Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 0/1      Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 0/1      Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 0/1      Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 0(+1)/1  Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 0(+1)/1  Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 1/1      Reducer 2: 0/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 1/1      Reducer 2: 0(+1)/1
        INFO  : Map 1: 1/1      Reducer 2: 1/1
        +----------+--------+--+
        |   sev    | count  |
        +----------+--------+--+
        | [ERROR]  | 3      |
        +----------+--------+--+
        1 row selected (47.351 seconds)

4. To exit Beeline, use `!quit`.

##<a id="file"></a>Run a HiveQL file

Beeline can also be used to run a file that contains HiveQL statements. Use the following steps to create a file, then run it using Beeline.

1. Use the following command to create a new file named __query.hql__:

        nano query.hql
        
2. Once the editor opens, use the following as the contents of the file. This query will create a new 'internal' table named **errorLogs**:

        CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS errorLogs (t1 string, t2 string, t3 string, t4 string, t5 string, t6 string, t7 string) STORED AS ORC;
        INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE errorLogs SELECT t1, t2, t3, t4, t5, t6, t7 FROM log4jLogs WHERE t4 = '[ERROR]' AND INPUT__FILE__NAME LIKE '%.log';

    These statements perform the following actions:

    * **CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS** - Creates a table, if it does not already exist. Since the **EXTERNAL** keyword is not used, this is an internal table, which is stored in the Hive data warehouse and is managed completely by Hive.
    * **STORED AS ORC** - Stores the data in Optimized Row Columnar (ORC) format. This is a highly optimized and efficient format for storing Hive data.
    * **INSERT OVERWRITE ... SELECT** - Selects rows from the **log4jLogs** table that contain **[ERROR]**, then inserts the data into the **errorLogs** table.
    
    > [AZURE.NOTE] Unlike external tables, dropping an internal table will delete the underlying data as well.
    
3. To save the file, use __Ctrl__+___X__, then enter __Y__, and finally __Enter__.

4. Use the following to run the file using Beeline. Replease __HOSTNAME__ with the name obtained earlier for the head node:

        beeline -u 'jdbc:hive2://HOSTNAME:10001/;transportMode=http' -n admin -p GiantR0b0! -f query.hql

5. To verify that the **errorLogs** table was created, start Beeline and connect to HiveServer2, then use the following statement to return all the rows from **errorLogs**:

        SELECT * from errorLogs;

    Three rows of data should be returned, all containing **[ERROR]** in column t4:
    
        +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+--+
        | errorlogs.t1  | errorlogs.t2  | errorlogs.t3  | errorlogs.t4  | errorlogs.t5  | errorlogs.t6  | errorlogs.t7  |
        +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+--+
        | 2012-02-03    | 18:35:34      | SampleClass0  | [ERROR]       | incorrect     | id            |               |
        | 2012-02-03    | 18:55:54      | SampleClass1  | [ERROR]       | incorrect     | id            |               |
        | 2012-02-03    | 19:25:27      | SampleClass4  | [ERROR]       | incorrect     | id            |               |
        +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+--+
        3 rows selected (1.538 seconds)

##<a id="summary"></a>Summary

As you can see, the Beeline command provides an easy way to interactively run Hive queries on an HDInsight cluster.

##<a id="nextsteps"></a>Next steps

For general information on Hive in HDInsight:

* [Use Hive with Hadoop on HDInsight](hdinsight-use-hive.md)

For information on other ways you can work with Hadoop on HDInsight:

* [Use Pig with Hadoop on HDInsight](hdinsight-use-pig.md)

* [Use MapReduce with Hadoop on HDInsight](hdinsight-use-mapreduce.md)

[hdinsight-sdk-documentation]: http://msdnstage.redmond.corp.microsoft.com/library/dn479185.aspx

[azure-purchase-options]: http://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/purchase-options/
[azure-member-offers]: http://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/member-offers/
[azure-free-trial]: http://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/

[apache-tez]: http://tez.apache.org
[apache-hive]: http://hive.apache.org/
[apache-log4j]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Log4j
[hive-on-tez-wiki]: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/Hive+on+Tez
[import-to-excel]: http://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/hdinsight-connect-excel-power-query/


[hdinsight-use-oozie]: hdinsight-use-oozie.md
[hdinsight-analyze-flight-data]: hdinsight-analyze-flight-delay-data.md

[putty]: http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html

[hdinsight-storage]: hdinsight-use-blob-storage.md

[hdinsight-provision]: hdinsight-provision-clusters.md
[hdinsight-submit-jobs]: hdinsight-submit-hadoop-jobs-programmatically.md
[hdinsight-upload-data]: hdinsight-upload-data.md
[hdinsight-get-started]: hdinsight-get-started.md


[powershell-here-strings]: http://technet.microsoft.com/library/ee692792.aspx

[image-hdi-hive-powershell]: ./media/hdinsight-use-hive/HDI.HIVE.PowerShell.png
[img-hdi-hive-powershell-output]: ./media/hdinsight-use-hive/HDI.Hive.PowerShell.Output.png
[image-hdi-hive-architecture]: ./media/hdinsight-use-hive/HDI.Hive.Architecture.png
