articles/cognitive-services/LUIS/AzureIbizaSubscription.md, before:

---
title: Creating LUIS subscription keys via Azure | Microsoft Docs
description: In this article, you create a metered key for your LUIS account to provide unlimited traffic to your endpoint following a payment plan.
services: cognitive-services
author: cahann
manager: hsalama

ms.service: cognitive-services
ms.technology: luis
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 03/01/2017
ms.author: cahann
---

# Creating Subscription Keys Via Azure

For unlimited traffic to your HTTP endpoint, you must create a metered key for your account on LUIS. Metered keys provide unlimited traffic to your endpoint following a payment plan. To create your key, follow these steps: 

1. Sign in to the **[Microsoft Azure Portal](https://ms.portal.azure.com/)** 
2. Click the green **+** sign in the upper left-hand panel and search for “Cognitive Services” in the marketplace, then click on **Cognitive Services APIs** and follow the **create experience** to create an API account you are interested in. 

    ![Azure Search](./Images/azure_search.png) 

3. Choose the API you are interested in by clicking on the **API Type** to create a subscription. In this case, choose the **Language Understanding Intelligent Service (LUIS)** option. Configure the subscription with settings including account name, pricing tiers, etc. 

    ![Azure API Choice](./Images/azure_apiChoice.png) 

4. Once you have created the API account, you can view the keys generated in the **Settings->Keys** blade. These can be tested in your existing application or by following the LUIS documentation to create a new application. 

    ![Azure Keys](./Images/azure_keys.png)

When you have created your key, you can add it to your account via the application settings/configuration dialog, found in any application.

Commit message:

Add pricing and region info

articles/cognitive-services/LUIS/AzureIbizaSubscription.md, after:

---
title: Creating LUIS subscription keys via Azure | Microsoft Docs
description: In this article, you create a metered key for your LUIS account to provide unlimited traffic to your endpoint following a payment plan.
services: cognitive-services
author: cahann
manager: hsalama

ms.service: cognitive-services
ms.technology: luis
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 03/01/2017
ms.author: cahann
---

# Creating Subscription Keys Via Azure

For unlimited traffic to your HTTP endpoint, you must create a metered key for your account on LUIS. Metered keys provide unlimited traffic to your endpoint following a payment plan. See [Cognitive Services Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/cognitive-services/language-understanding-intelligent-services/?v=17.23h) for pricing information. 

To create your key, follow these steps: 

1. Sign in to the **[Microsoft Azure Portal](https://ms.portal.azure.com/)** 
2. Click the green **+** sign in the upper left-hand panel and search for “Cognitive Services” in the marketplace, then click on **Cognitive Services APIs** and follow the **create experience** to create an API account you are interested in. 

    ![Azure Search](./Images/azure_search.png) 

3. Choose the API you are interested in by clicking on the **API Type** to create a subscription. In this case, choose the **Language Understanding Intelligent Service (LUIS)** option. Configure the subscription with settings including account name, pricing tiers, etc. 

    ![Azure API Choice](./Images/azure_apiChoice.png) 

4. Once you have created the API account, you can view the keys generated in the **Settings->Keys** blade. These can be tested in your existing application or by following the LUIS documentation to create a new application. 

    ![Azure Keys](./Images/azure_keys.png)

When you have created your key, you can add it to your account via the application settings/configuration dialog, found in any application.
