<properties linkid="dev-php-samples-and-toolkits" urldisplayname="Samples and Toolkits" headerexpose="" pagetitle="Windows Azure Code Samples, Toolkits, and Accelerators" metakeywords="Azure samples, Azure code samples, Azure examples, Azure code examples, Azure toolkits, Azure accelerators" footerexpose="" metadescription="Get Windows Azure sample applications, toolkits, and accelerators that will help simplify the development of key application scenarios." umbraconavihide="0" disquscomments="1"></properties>

# Windows Azure Code Samples, Toolkits, and Accelerators

For digging into the details of how things work in Windows Azure, you
can review code for an abundance of sample applications, toolkits, and
accelerators.

## Code Samples

If you like to learn through looking at code samples, [Windows Azure
Code Samples][] has a growing list of sample applications contributed by
Microsoft and the Windows Azure community.

![][]

## Toolkits and Accelerators

The Windows Azure Toolkits and Accelerators are a collection of
templates, libraries, samples, and documentation designed to simplify
the development of key application scenarios. These toolkits are
open-sourced to the community to help jumpstart the creation of
applications.

[Windows Azure Toolkit for Windows Phone][]: This toolkit is designed to
make it easier for you to build Windows Phone applications that leverage
cloud services running in Windows Azure.

[Windows Azure Toolkit for iOS][]: This toolkit is designed to make it
easier for you to build native iOS applications using Objective-C and
XCode for the iPhone and iPad that leverage cloud services running in
Windows Azure.

[Windows Azure Toolkit for Android][]: This toolkit is designed to make
it easier for you to build native Android applications that leverage
cloud services running in Windows Azure.

[Windows Azure Toolkit for Windows 8][]: This toolkit is designed to let
you build rich Windows Metro style applications that incorporate push
notifications, cloud storage, and access control.

[Windows Azure Toolkit for Social Gaming][]: This toolkit is designed to
help developers quickly get started building a casual or social game on
Windows Azure.

[Windows Azure Accelerator for Web Roles][] <span>: This accelerators is
designed to make it quick and easy to deploy one or more websites across
multiple Web Role instances using Web Deploy.</span>

  [Windows Azure Code Samples]: http://code.msdn.microsoft.com/windowsazure/
  []: ../../../DevCenter/dotNet/Media/samples-toolkits-1.png
  [Windows Azure Toolkit for Windows Phone]: http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=214684&clcid=0x409
  [Windows Azure Toolkit for iOS]: http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234566&clcid=0x409
  [Windows Azure Toolkit for Android]: http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234567&clcid=0x409
  [Windows Azure Toolkit for Windows 8]: http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=236946&clcid=0x409
  [Windows Azure Toolkit for Social Gaming]: http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=236947&clcid=0x409
  [Windows Azure Accelerator for Web Roles]: http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=236948&clcid=0x409
