articles/azure-functions/scripts/functions-cli-create-function-app-github.md, before:

---
title: Create a Function App and deploy function code from GitHub | Microsoft Docs 
description: Azure CLI Script Sample - Create a Function App and deploy function code from GitHub
services: functions 
keywords:
author: syntaxc4
ms.author: cfowler
ms.date: 04/27/2017
ms.topic: sample
ms.service: functions
ms.custom: mvc
---
# Create a function app and deploy function code from GitHub

This sample script creates a function app using the [consumption plan](../functions-scale.md#consumption-plan) with its related resources, and deploys your function code from a public GitHub repository (without continuous deployment). For continuous delivery of function code from GitHub, read [Create a function app and continuously deploy from GitHub](functions-cli-create-function-app-github-continuous.md)

[!INCLUDE [sample-cli-install](../../../includes/sample-cli-install.md)]

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it.md](../../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../../../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]

## Sample script

This sample creates an Azure Function app and deploys function code from GitHub.

[!code-azurecli-interactive[main](../../../cli_scripts/azure-functions/deploy-function-app-with-function-github/deploy-function-app-with-function-github.sh?highlight=3 "Create a function app with deployment from GitHub")]

[!INCLUDE [cli-script-clean-up](../../../includes/cli-script-clean-up.md)]

## Script explanation

Each command in the table links to command specific documentation. This script uses the following commands:

| Command | Notes |
|---|---|
| [az group create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/group#create) | Creates a resource group in which all resources are stored. |
| [az storage account create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/plan#create) | Creates an App Service plan. |
| [az functionapp create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/web#delete) | Creates an Azure Function app. |
| [az appservice web source-control config](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/web/source-control#config) | Associates a function app with a Git or Mercurial repository. |

## Next steps

For more information on the Azure CLI, see [Azure CLI documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/overview).

Additional Azure Functions CLI script samples can be found in the [Azure Functions documentation](../functions-cli-samples.md).

Commit message:

updating text surrounding new version of the include file

articles/azure-functions/scripts/functions-cli-create-function-app-github.md, after:

---
title: Create a Function App and deploy function code from GitHub | Microsoft Docs 
description: Azure CLI Script Sample - Create a Function App and deploy function code from GitHub
services: functions 
keywords:
author: syntaxc4
ms.author: cfowler
ms.date: 04/27/2017
ms.topic: sample
ms.service: functions
ms.custom: mvc
---
# Create a function app and deploy function code from GitHub

This sample script creates a function app using the [consumption plan](../functions-scale.md#consumption-plan) with its related resources, and deploys your function code from a public GitHub repository (without continuous deployment). For continuous delivery of function code from GitHub, read [Create a function app and continuously deploy from GitHub](functions-cli-create-function-app-github-continuous.md)

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../../../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it.md](../../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

If you choose to install and use the CLI locally, this topic requires that you are running the Azure CLI version 2.0 or later. Run `az --version` to find the version. If you need to install or upgrade, see [Install Azure CLI 2.0]( /cli/azure/install-azure-cli). 

## Sample script

This sample creates an Azure Function app and deploys function code from GitHub.

[!code-azurecli-interactive[main](../../../cli_scripts/azure-functions/deploy-function-app-with-function-github/deploy-function-app-with-function-github.sh?highlight=3 "Create a function app with deployment from GitHub")]

[!INCLUDE [cli-script-clean-up](../../../includes/cli-script-clean-up.md)]

## Script explanation

Each command in the table links to command specific documentation. This script uses the following commands:

| Command | Notes |
|---|---|
| [az group create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/group#create) | Creates a resource group in which all resources are stored. |
| [az storage account create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/plan#create) | Creates an App Service plan. |
| [az functionapp create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/web#delete) | Creates an Azure Function app. |
| [az appservice web source-control config](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/web/source-control#config) | Associates a function app with a Git or Mercurial repository. |

## Next steps

For more information on the Azure CLI, see [Azure CLI documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/overview).

Additional Azure Functions CLI script samples can be found in the [Azure Functions documentation](../functions-cli-samples.md).
