articles/azure-functions/scripts/functions-cli-create-function-app-vsts-continuous.md, before:

---
title: Create a Function App and deploy function code from Visual Studio Team Services | Microsoft Docs 
description: Create a Function App and deploy function code from Visual Studio Team Services
services: functions 
keywords: 
author: syntaxc4
ms.author: cfowler
ms.date: 04/28/2017
ms.topic: sample
ms.service: functions
ms.custom: mvc
---
# Create an App Service

In this scenario you will learn how to create a function app using the [consumption plan](../functions-scale.md#consumption-plan) with its related resources, and continuously deploys your function code from a Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) repository. In this sample, you will need:

* A VSTS repository with functions code, that you have administrative permissions for.
* A [Personal Access Token (PAT)](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-an-access-token-for-command-line-use) for your GitHub account.

[!INCLUDE [sample-cli-install](../../../includes/sample-cli-install.md)]

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it.md](../../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../../../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]

## Sample script

This sample creates an Azure Function app and deploys function code from Visual Studio Team Services.

[!code-azurecli-interactive[main](../../../cli_scripts/azure-functions/deploy-function-app-with-function-vsts/deploy-function-app-with-function-vsts.sh?highlight=3-4 "Azure Service")]

[!INCLUDE [cli-script-clean-up](../../../includes/cli-script-clean-up.md)]

## Script explanation

This script uses the following commands to create a resource group, web app, documentdb and all related resources. Each command in the table links to command specific documentation.

| Command | Notes |
|---|---|
| [az group create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/group#create) | Creates a resource group in which all resources are stored. |
| [az storage account create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/plan#create) | Creates an App Service plan. |
| [az functionapp create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/web#delete) |
| [az appservice web source-control config](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/web/source-control#config) | Associates a function app with a Git or Mercurial repository. |

## Next steps

For more information on the Azure CLI, see [Azure CLI documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/overview).

Additional Azure Functions CLI script samples can be found in the [Azure Functions documentation](../functions-cli-samples.md).

Commit message:

updating text surrounding new version of the include file

articles/azure-functions/scripts/functions-cli-create-function-app-vsts-continuous.md, after:

---
title: Create a Function App and deploy function code from Visual Studio Team Services | Microsoft Docs 
description: Create a Function App and deploy function code from Visual Studio Team Services
services: functions 
keywords: 
author: syntaxc4
ms.author: cfowler
ms.date: 04/28/2017
ms.topic: sample
ms.service: functions
ms.custom: mvc
---
# Create an App Service

In this scenario you will learn how to create a function app using the [consumption plan](../functions-scale.md#consumption-plan) with its related resources, and continuously deploys your function code from a Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) repository. In this sample, you will need:

* A VSTS repository with functions code, that you have administrative permissions for.
* A [Personal Access Token (PAT)](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-an-access-token-for-command-line-use) for your GitHub account.

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../../../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it.md](../../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

If you choose to install and use the CLI locally, this topic requires that you are running the Azure CLI version 2.0 or later. Run `az --version` to find the version. If you need to install or upgrade, see [Install Azure CLI 2.0]( /cli/azure/install-azure-cli). 

## Sample script

This sample creates an Azure Function app and deploys function code from Visual Studio Team Services.

[!code-azurecli-interactive[main](../../../cli_scripts/azure-functions/deploy-function-app-with-function-vsts/deploy-function-app-with-function-vsts.sh?highlight=3-4 "Azure Service")]

[!INCLUDE [cli-script-clean-up](../../../includes/cli-script-clean-up.md)]

## Script explanation

This script uses the following commands to create a resource group, web app, documentdb and all related resources. Each command in the table links to command specific documentation.

| Command | Notes |
|---|---|
| [az group create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/group#create) | Creates a resource group in which all resources are stored. |
| [az storage account create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/plan#create) | Creates an App Service plan. |
| [az functionapp create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/web#delete) |
| [az appservice web source-control config](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/web/source-control#config) | Associates a function app with a Git or Mercurial repository. |

## Next steps

For more information on the Azure CLI, see [Azure CLI documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/overview).

Additional Azure Functions CLI script samples can be found in the [Azure Functions documentation](../functions-cli-samples.md).
