articles/app-service-web/scripts/app-service-cli-linux-docker-aspnetcore.md, before:

---
title: Azure CLI Script Sample - Create an ASP.NET Core web app in a Docker container | Microsoft Docs
description: Azure CLI Script Sample - Create an ASP.NET Core web app in a Docker container
services: appservice
documentationcenter: appservice
author: syntaxc4
manager: erikre
editor: 
tags: azure-service-management

ms.assetid: 3a2d1983-ff7b-476a-ac44-49ec2aabb31a
ms.service: app-service
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.topic: sample
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: web
ms.date: 03/20/2017
ms.author: cfowler
ms.custom: mvc
---

# Create an ASP.NET Core web app in a Docker container

In this scenario you will learn how to create a resource group, Linux app service plan, and web app, and deploy an ASP.NET Core application using a Docker Container.

[!INCLUDE [sample-cli-install](../../../includes/sample-cli-install.md)]

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it.md](../../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../../../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]

## Sample script

[!code-azurecli-interactive[main](../../../cli_scripts/app-service/deploy-linux-docker/deploy-linux-docker.sh?highlight=6 "Linux Docker")]

[!INCLUDE [cli-script-clean-up](../../../includes/cli-script-clean-up.md)]

## Script explanation

This script uses the following commands to create a resource group, web app, and all related resources. Each command in the table links to command specific documentation.

| Command | Notes |
|---|---|
| [az group create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/group#create) | Creates a resource group in which all resources are stored. |
| [az appservice plan create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/plan#create) | Creates an App Service plan. This is like a server farm for your Azure web app. |
| [az appservice web create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/web#create) | Creates an Azure web app within the App Service plan. |
| [az appservice web config container update](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/web/config/container#update) | Sets the Docker container for the Azure web app. |

## Next steps

For more information on the Azure CLI, see [Azure CLI documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/overview).

Additional App Service CLI script samples can be found in the [Azure App Service documentation](../app-service-cli-samples.md).

Commit message:

updating text surrounding new version of the include file

articles/app-service-web/scripts/app-service-cli-linux-docker-aspnetcore.md, after:

---
title: Azure CLI Script Sample - Create an ASP.NET Core web app in a Docker container | Microsoft Docs
description: Azure CLI Script Sample - Create an ASP.NET Core web app in a Docker container
services: appservice
documentationcenter: appservice
author: syntaxc4
manager: erikre
editor: 
tags: azure-service-management

ms.assetid: 3a2d1983-ff7b-476a-ac44-49ec2aabb31a
ms.service: app-service
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.topic: sample
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: web
ms.date: 03/20/2017
ms.author: cfowler
ms.custom: mvc
---

# Create an ASP.NET Core web app in a Docker container

In this scenario you will learn how to create a resource group, Linux app service plan, and web app, and deploy an ASP.NET Core application using a Docker Container.

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../../../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it.md](../../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

If you choose to install and use the CLI locally, this topic requires that you are running the Azure CLI version 2.0 or later. Run `az --version` to find the version. If you need to install or upgrade, see [Install Azure CLI 2.0]( /cli/azure/install-azure-cli). 


## Sample script

[!code-azurecli-interactive[main](../../../cli_scripts/app-service/deploy-linux-docker/deploy-linux-docker.sh?highlight=6 "Linux Docker")]

[!INCLUDE [cli-script-clean-up](../../../includes/cli-script-clean-up.md)]

## Script explanation

This script uses the following commands to create a resource group, web app, and all related resources. Each command in the table links to command specific documentation.

| Command | Notes |
|---|---|
| [az group create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/group#create) | Creates a resource group in which all resources are stored. |
| [az appservice plan create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/plan#create) | Creates an App Service plan. This is like a server farm for your Azure web app. |
| [az appservice web create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/web#create) | Creates an Azure web app within the App Service plan. |
| [az appservice web config container update](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/appservice/web/config/container#update) | Sets the Docker container for the Azure web app. |

## Next steps

For more information on the Azure CLI, see [Azure CLI documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/overview).

Additional App Service CLI script samples can be found in the [Azure App Service documentation](../app-service-cli-samples.md).
