articles/time-series-insights/time-series-insights-manage-reference-data-csharp.md, before:

---
title: Manage reference data for an Azure Time Series Insights environment by using C# | Microsoft Docs
description: This tutorial covers how to manage reference data for an Azure Time Series Insights environment by using C#
keywords:
services: time-series-insights
documentationcenter:
author: venkatgct
manager: almineev
editor: cgronlun

ms.assetid:
ms.service: time-series-insights
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: how-to-article
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: big-data
ms.date: 06/29/2017
ms.author: venkatja
---
# Manage reference data for an Azure Time Series Insights environment by using C#

## Introduction

This C# sample demonstrates how to manage reference data for an Azure Time Series Insights environment.
Before running the sample, ensure the following steps are completed.
1. A reference data set has been created using [this article](time-series-insights-add-reference-data-set.md).
2. The access token used when running the application is acquired through the Azure Active Directory API. This token should be passed in the `Authorization` header of every Query API request. For setting up non-interactive applications, see the [Authentication and authorization](time-series-insights-authentication-and-authorization.md) article.
3. All the constants defined at the beginning of the sample are correctly set.

## C# sample

```csharp
// Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation.  All rights reserved.

using System;
using System.IO;
using System.Net;
using System.Threading.Tasks;
using Microsoft.IdentityModel.Clients.ActiveDirectory;
using Newtonsoft.Json;
using Newtonsoft.Json.Linq;

namespace TimeSeriesInsightsReferenceDataSampleApp
{
    public static class Program
    {
        // SET the environment fqdn.
        private const string EnvironmentFqdn = "dummyid.env.timeseries.azure.com";

        // SET the environment reference data set name used when creating it.
        private const string EnvironmentReferenceDataSetName = "contosords";

        // For automated execution under application identity,
        // use application created in Active Directory.
        // To create the application in AAD, follow the steps provided here:
        // https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/time-series-insights/time-series-insights-authentication-and-authorization

        // SET the application ID of application registered in your Azure Active Directory
        private const string ApplicationClientId = "fe1bc0a0-3097-4b7c-9efc-ee919be80c9e";

        // SET the application key of the application registered in your Azure Active Directory
        private const string ApplicationClientSecret = "#DUMMYSECRET#";

        private static async Task DemoReferenceDataAsync()
        {
            // 1. Acquire an access token.
            string accessToken = await AcquireAccessTokenAsync();

            // 2. Put a new reference data item.
            {
                HttpWebRequest request = CreateWebRequest(accessToken);
                string input = @"
{
	""put"": [{
		""DeviceId"": ""Fan1"",
		""Type"": ""Fan"",
		""BladeCount"": ""3""
	}]
}";
                await SendRequestAsync(request, input);
                string output = await GetResponseAsync(request);
                PrintInputOutput(action: "Put", input: input, output: output);
            }

            // 3. Get reference data item.
            {
                HttpWebRequest request = CreateWebRequest(accessToken);
                string input = @"
{
	""get"": [{
		""DeviceId"": ""Fan1""
	}]
}";
                await SendRequestAsync(request, input);
                string output = await GetResponseAsync(request);
                PrintInputOutput(action: "Get", input: input, output: output);
            }

            // 4. Patch an existing reference data item.
            // Update BladeCount and add Colour.
            {
                HttpWebRequest request = CreateWebRequest(accessToken);
                string input = @"
{
	""patch"": [{
		""DeviceId"": ""Fan1"",
		""BladeCount"": ""4"",
		""Colour"": ""Brown""
	}]
}";
                await SendRequestAsync(request, input);
                string output = await GetResponseAsync(request);
                PrintInputOutput(action: "Patch", input: input, output: output);
            }

            // 5. Delete a property from an existing reference data item.
            {
                HttpWebRequest request = CreateWebRequest(accessToken);
                string input = @"
{
	""deleteproperties"": [{
		""key"": {
			""DeviceId"": ""Fan1""
		},
		""properties"": [""BladeCount""]
	}]
}";
                await SendRequestAsync(request, input);
                string output = await GetResponseAsync(request);
                PrintInputOutput(action: "DeleteProperties", input: input, output: output);
            }

            // 6. Delete an existing reference data item.
            {
                HttpWebRequest request = CreateWebRequest(accessToken);
                string input = @"
{
	""delete"": [{
		""DeviceId"": ""Fan1""
	}]
}";
                await SendRequestAsync(request, input);
                string output = await GetResponseAsync(request);
                PrintInputOutput(action: "Delete", input: input, output: output);
            }
        }

        private static async Task<string> AcquireAccessTokenAsync()
        {
            var authenticationContext = new AuthenticationContext(
                "https://login.windows.net/common",
                TokenCache.DefaultShared);

            AuthenticationResult token = await authenticationContext.AcquireTokenAsync(
                resource: "https://api.timeseries.azure.com/",
                clientCredential: new ClientCredential(
                    clientId: ApplicationClientId,
                    clientSecret: ApplicationClientSecret));

            // Show interactive logon dialog to acquire token on behalf of the user.
            // Suitable for native apps, and not on server-side of a web application.
            //AuthenticationResult token = await authenticationContext.AcquireTokenAsync(
            //    resource: "https://api.timeseries.azure.com/",
            //    clientId: "1950a258-227b-4e31-a9cf-717495945fc2",
            //    redirectUri: new Uri("urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob"),
            //    parameters: new PlatformParameters(PromptBehavior.Auto));

            return token.AccessToken;
        }

        private static HttpWebRequest CreateWebRequest(string accessToken)
        {
            Uri uri = new UriBuilder("https", EnvironmentFqdn)
            {
                Path = $"referencedatasets/{EnvironmentReferenceDataSetName}/$batch",
                Query = "api-version=2016-12-12"
            }.Uri;
            HttpWebRequest request = WebRequest.CreateHttp(uri);
            request.Method = "POST";
            request.Headers.Add("x-ms-client-application-name", "TimeSeriesInsightsReferenceDataSample");
            request.Headers.Add("Authorization", "Bearer " + accessToken);
            return request;
        }

        private static async Task SendRequestAsync(HttpWebRequest request, string json)
        {
            using (var stream = await request.GetRequestStreamAsync())
            using (var streamWriter = new StreamWriter(stream))
            {
                await streamWriter.WriteAsync(json);
                await streamWriter.FlushAsync();
                streamWriter.Close();
            }
        }

        private static async Task<string> GetResponseAsync(HttpWebRequest request)
        {
            using (WebResponse webResponse = await request.GetResponseAsync())
            using (var sr = new StreamReader(webResponse.GetResponseStream()))
            {
                string result = await sr.ReadToEndAsync();
                return result;
            }
        }

        private static void PrintInputOutput(string action, string input, string output)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("=== {0} request ===", action);
            Console.WriteLine("Input: {0}", JsonConvert.SerializeObject(JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<JObject>(input), Formatting.Indented));
            Console.WriteLine("Output: {0}", JsonConvert.SerializeObject(JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<JObject>(output), Formatting.Indented));
            Console.WriteLine();
        }

        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            Task.Run(async () => await DemoReferenceDataAsync()).Wait();
        }
    }
}
```

Commit message:

Add reference data api reference

articles/time-series-insights/time-series-insights-manage-reference-data-csharp.md, after:

---
title: Manage reference data for an Azure Time Series Insights environment by using C# | Microsoft Docs
description: This tutorial covers how to manage reference data for an Azure Time Series Insights environment by using C#
keywords:
services: time-series-insights
documentationcenter:
author: venkatgct
manager: almineev
editor: cgronlun

ms.assetid:
ms.service: time-series-insights
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: how-to-article
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: big-data
ms.date: 06/29/2017
ms.author: venkatja
---
# Manage reference data for an Azure Time Series Insights environment by using C#

This C# sample demonstrates how to manage reference data for an Azure Time Series Insights environment.
Before running the sample, ensure the following steps are completed.
1. A reference data set has been created using [this article](time-series-insights-add-reference-data-set.md).
2. The access token used when running the application is acquired through the Azure Active Directory API. This token should be passed in the `Authorization` header of every Query API request. For setting up non-interactive applications, see the [Authentication and authorization](time-series-insights-authentication-and-authorization.md) article.
3. All the constants defined at the beginning of the sample are correctly set.

## C# sample

```csharp
// Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation.  All rights reserved.

using System;
using System.IO;
using System.Net;
using System.Threading.Tasks;
using Microsoft.IdentityModel.Clients.ActiveDirectory;
using Newtonsoft.Json;
using Newtonsoft.Json.Linq;

namespace TimeSeriesInsightsReferenceDataSampleApp
{
    public static class Program
    {
        // SET the environment fqdn.
        private const string EnvironmentFqdn = "dummyid.env.timeseries.azure.com";

        // SET the environment reference data set name used when creating it.
        private const string EnvironmentReferenceDataSetName = "contosords";

        // For automated execution under application identity,
        // use application created in Active Directory.
        // To create the application in AAD, follow the steps provided here:
        // https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/time-series-insights/time-series-insights-authentication-and-authorization

        // SET the application ID of application registered in your Azure Active Directory
        private const string ApplicationClientId = "fe1bc0a0-3097-4b7c-9efc-ee919be80c9e";

        // SET the application key of the application registered in your Azure Active Directory
        private const string ApplicationClientSecret = "#DUMMYSECRET#";

        private static async Task DemoReferenceDataAsync()
        {
            // 1. Acquire an access token.
            string accessToken = await AcquireAccessTokenAsync();

            // 2. Put a new reference data item.
            {
                HttpWebRequest request = CreateWebRequest(accessToken);
                string input = @"
{
	""put"": [{
		""DeviceId"": ""Fan1"",
		""Type"": ""Fan"",
		""BladeCount"": ""3""
	}]
}";
                await SendRequestAsync(request, input);
                string output = await GetResponseAsync(request);
                PrintInputOutput(action: "Put", input: input, output: output);
            }

            // 3. Get reference data item.
            {
                HttpWebRequest request = CreateWebRequest(accessToken);
                string input = @"
{
	""get"": [{
		""DeviceId"": ""Fan1""
	}]
}";
                await SendRequestAsync(request, input);
                string output = await GetResponseAsync(request);
                PrintInputOutput(action: "Get", input: input, output: output);
            }

            // 4. Patch an existing reference data item.
            // Update BladeCount and add Colour.
            {
                HttpWebRequest request = CreateWebRequest(accessToken);
                string input = @"
{
	""patch"": [{
		""DeviceId"": ""Fan1"",
		""BladeCount"": ""4"",
		""Colour"": ""Brown""
	}]
}";
                await SendRequestAsync(request, input);
                string output = await GetResponseAsync(request);
                PrintInputOutput(action: "Patch", input: input, output: output);
            }

            // 5. Delete a property from an existing reference data item.
            {
                HttpWebRequest request = CreateWebRequest(accessToken);
                string input = @"
{
	""deleteproperties"": [{
		""key"": {
			""DeviceId"": ""Fan1""
		},
		""properties"": [""BladeCount""]
	}]
}";
                await SendRequestAsync(request, input);
                string output = await GetResponseAsync(request);
                PrintInputOutput(action: "DeleteProperties", input: input, output: output);
            }

            // 6. Delete an existing reference data item.
            {
                HttpWebRequest request = CreateWebRequest(accessToken);
                string input = @"
{
	""delete"": [{
		""DeviceId"": ""Fan1""
	}]
}";
                await SendRequestAsync(request, input);
                string output = await GetResponseAsync(request);
                PrintInputOutput(action: "Delete", input: input, output: output);
            }
        }

        private static async Task<string> AcquireAccessTokenAsync()
        {
            var authenticationContext = new AuthenticationContext(
                "https://login.windows.net/common",
                TokenCache.DefaultShared);

            AuthenticationResult token = await authenticationContext.AcquireTokenAsync(
                resource: "https://api.timeseries.azure.com/",
                clientCredential: new ClientCredential(
                    clientId: ApplicationClientId,
                    clientSecret: ApplicationClientSecret));

            // Show interactive logon dialog to acquire token on behalf of the user.
            // Suitable for native apps, and not on server-side of a web application.
            //AuthenticationResult token = await authenticationContext.AcquireTokenAsync(
            //    resource: "https://api.timeseries.azure.com/",
            //    clientId: "1950a258-227b-4e31-a9cf-717495945fc2",
            //    redirectUri: new Uri("urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob"),
            //    parameters: new PlatformParameters(PromptBehavior.Auto));

            return token.AccessToken;
        }

        private static HttpWebRequest CreateWebRequest(string accessToken)
        {
            Uri uri = new UriBuilder("https", EnvironmentFqdn)
            {
                Path = $"referencedatasets/{EnvironmentReferenceDataSetName}/$batch",
                Query = "api-version=2016-12-12"
            }.Uri;
            HttpWebRequest request = WebRequest.CreateHttp(uri);
            request.Method = "POST";
            request.Headers.Add("x-ms-client-application-name", "TimeSeriesInsightsReferenceDataSample");
            request.Headers.Add("Authorization", "Bearer " + accessToken);
            return request;
        }

        private static async Task SendRequestAsync(HttpWebRequest request, string json)
        {
            using (var stream = await request.GetRequestStreamAsync())
            using (var streamWriter = new StreamWriter(stream))
            {
                await streamWriter.WriteAsync(json);
                await streamWriter.FlushAsync();
                streamWriter.Close();
            }
        }

        private static async Task<string> GetResponseAsync(HttpWebRequest request)
        {
            using (WebResponse webResponse = await request.GetResponseAsync())
            using (var sr = new StreamReader(webResponse.GetResponseStream()))
            {
                string result = await sr.ReadToEndAsync();
                return result;
            }
        }

        private static void PrintInputOutput(string action, string input, string output)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("=== {0} request ===", action);
            Console.WriteLine("Input: {0}", JsonConvert.SerializeObject(JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<JObject>(input), Formatting.Indented));
            Console.WriteLine("Output: {0}", JsonConvert.SerializeObject(JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<JObject>(output), Formatting.Indented));
            Console.WriteLine();
        }

        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            Task.Run(async () => await DemoReferenceDataAsync()).Wait();
        }
    }
}
```

## Next steps

For the complete API reference, see [Reference Data API](/rest/api/time-series-insights/time-series-insights-reference-reference-data-api) document.
