articles/sql-database/scripts/sql-database-move-database-between-pools-cli.md, before:

---
title: Azure CLI Script-Move a SQL database and elastic pools | Microsoft Docs
description: Azure CLI Script Sample - Move a SQL database between elastic pools using Azure CLI
services: sql-database
documentationcenter: sql-database
author: janeng
manager: jstrauss
editor: carlrab
tags: azure-service-management

ms.assetid:
ms.service: sql-database
ms.custom: monitor & tune
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.topic: sample
ms.tgt_pltfrm: sql-database
ms.workload: database
ms.date: 04/24/2017
ms.author: janeng
---

# Create elastic pools and move databases between pools and out of a pool using the Azure CLI

This sample CLI script creates two elastic pools and moves a database from one elastic pool into another elastic pool, and then moves a database out of an elastic pool to a single database performance level. 

[!INCLUDE [sample-cli-install](../../../includes/sample-cli-install.md)]

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it.md](../../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../../../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]

## Sample script

[!code-azurecli-interactive[main](../../../cli_scripts/sql-database/move-database-between-pools/move-database-between-pools.sh "Move database between pools")]

## Clean up deployment

After the script sample has been run, the following command can be used to remove the resource group and all resources associated with it.

```azurecli-interactive
az group delete --name myResourceGroup
```

## Script explanation

This script uses the following commands. Each command in the table links to command specific documentation.

| Command | Notes |
|---|---|
| [az group create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/group#create) | Creates a resource group in which all resources are stored. |
| [az sql server create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/sql/server#create) | Creates a logical server that hosts a database or elastic pool. |
| [az sql elastic-pools create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/sql/elastic-pools#create) | Creates an elastic pool within the logical server. |
| [az sql db create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/sql/db#create) | Creates a database in a logical server as a single or a pooled database. |
| [az sql db update](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/sql/db#update) | Updates database properties or moves a database into, out of, or between elastic pools. |
| [az group delete](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/vm/extension#set) | Deletes a resource group including all nested resources. |

## Next steps

For more information on the Azure CLI, see [Azure CLI documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/overview).

Additional SQL Database CLI script samples can be found in the [Azure SQL Database documentation](../sql-database-cli-samples.md).

Commit message:

updating text surrounding new version of the include file

articles/sql-database/scripts/sql-database-move-database-between-pools-cli.md, after:

---
title: Azure CLI Script-Move a SQL database and elastic pools | Microsoft Docs
description: Azure CLI Script Sample - Move a SQL database between elastic pools using Azure CLI
services: sql-database
documentationcenter: sql-database
author: janeng
manager: jstrauss
editor: carlrab
tags: azure-service-management

ms.assetid:
ms.service: sql-database
ms.custom: monitor & tune
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.topic: sample
ms.tgt_pltfrm: sql-database
ms.workload: database
ms.date: 04/24/2017
ms.author: janeng
---

# Create elastic pools and move databases between pools and out of a pool using the Azure CLI

This sample CLI script creates two elastic pools and moves a database from one elastic pool into another elastic pool, and then moves a database out of an elastic pool to a single database performance level. 

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../../../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it.md](../../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

If you choose to install and use the CLI locally, this topic requires that you are running the Azure CLI version 2.0 or later. Run `az --version` to find the version. If you need to install or upgrade, see [Install Azure CLI 2.0]( /cli/azure/install-azure-cli). 

## Sample script

[!code-azurecli-interactive[main](../../../cli_scripts/sql-database/move-database-between-pools/move-database-between-pools.sh "Move database between pools")]

## Clean up deployment

After the script sample has been run, the following command can be used to remove the resource group and all resources associated with it.

```azurecli-interactive
az group delete --name myResourceGroup
```

## Script explanation

This script uses the following commands. Each command in the table links to command specific documentation.

| Command | Notes |
|---|---|
| [az group create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/group#create) | Creates a resource group in which all resources are stored. |
| [az sql server create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/sql/server#create) | Creates a logical server that hosts a database or elastic pool. |
| [az sql elastic-pools create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/sql/elastic-pools#create) | Creates an elastic pool within the logical server. |
| [az sql db create](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/sql/db#create) | Creates a database in a logical server as a single or a pooled database. |
| [az sql db update](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/sql/db#update) | Updates database properties or moves a database into, out of, or between elastic pools. |
| [az group delete](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/vm/extension#set) | Deletes a resource group including all nested resources. |

## Next steps

For more information on the Azure CLI, see [Azure CLI documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/overview).

Additional SQL Database CLI script samples can be found in the [Azure SQL Database documentation](../sql-database-cli-samples.md).
