articles/storsimple/storsimple-overview.md, before:

<properties 
   pageTitle="What is StorSimple?" 
   description="Describes StorSimple features and architecture, and introduces the StorSimple components." 
   services="storsimple" 
   documentationCenter="NA" 
   authors="SharS" 
   manager="AdinaH" 
   editor=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="storsimple"
   ms.devlang="NA"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="NA"
   ms.workload="TBD" 
   ms.date="08/03/2015"
   ms.author="v-sharos@microsoft.com"/>

# What is StorSimple? 

## Overview

Microsoft Azure StorSimple is an efficient, cost-effective, and manageable solution that eliminates many of the issues and expense associated with enterprise storage and data protection. It uses a proprietary device (the Microsoft Azure StorSimple device), integration with cloud services, and a set of management tools to provide a seamless view of all enterprise storage, including cloud storage.

StorSimple uses storage tiering to manage stored data across various storage media. The current working set is stored on-premises on solid state drives (SSDs), data that is used less frequently is stored on hard disk drives (HDDs), and archival data is pushed to the cloud. Additionally, StorSimple uses deduplication and compression to reduce the amount of storage that the data consumes. The storage tiering process occurs as follows:

1. A system administrator sets up a Microsoft Azure cloud storage account.
2. The administrator uses the serial console and the StorSimple Manager service (running in the Azure Management Portal) to configure the device and file server, creating volumes and data protection policies. The on-premises file server uses the Internet Small Computer System Interface (iSCSI) to access the StorSimple device.
3. Initially, StorSimple stores data on the fast SSD tier of the device.
4. As the SSD tier approaches capacity, StorSimple deduplicates and compresses the oldest data blocks, and moves them to the HDD tier.
5. As the HDD tier approaches capacity, StorSimple encrypts the oldest data blocks and sends them securely to the Microsoft Azure storage account via HTTPS.
6. Microsoft Azure creates multiple replicas of the data in its datacenter and in a remote datacenter, ensuring that the data can be recovered if a disaster occurs. 
7. When the file server requests data stored in the cloud, StorSimple returns it seamlessly and stores a copy on the SSD tier of the StorSimple device.

StorSimple enables you to create on-demand and scheduled backups, and store them locally or in the cloud. Backups are taken in the form of incremental snapshots, which means that they can be created and restored quickly.

>[AZURE.NOTE] In addition to Microsoft Azure, the StorSimple 8000 series supports Amazon S3 with RRS, HP, and OpenStack cloud services. For more information, see  [Configure a new storage account](storsimple-deployment-walkthrough.md#configure-a-new-storage-account) in [Deploy your on-premises StorSimple device](storsimple-deployment-walkthrough-u1.md).

## Why use StorSimple?

Microsoft Azure StorSimple provides the following benefits:

- **Transparent integration** – Microsoft Azure StorSimple uses the iSCSI protocol to invisibly link data storage facilities. This ensures that data stored in the cloud, at the datacenter, or on remote servers appears to be stored at a single location.
- **Reduced storage costs** – Microsoft Azure StorSimple allocates sufficient local or cloud storage to meet current demands and extends cloud storage only when necessary. It further reduces storage requirements and expense by eliminating redundant versions of the same data (deduplication) and by using compression.
- **Simplified storage management** – Microsoft Azure StorSimple provides system administration tools that you can use to configure and manage data stored on-premises, on a remote server, and in the cloud. Additionally, you can manage backup and restore functions from a Microsoft Management Console (MMC) snap-in. StorSimple provides a separate, optional interface that you can use to extend StorSimple management and data protection services to content stored on SharePoint servers. 
- **Improved disaster recovery and compliance** – Microsoft Azure StorSimple does not require extended recovery time. Instead, it restores data as it is needed. This means normal operations can continue with minimal disruption. Additionally, you can configure policies to specify backup schedules and data retention.
- **Data mobility** – Data uploaded to Microsoft Azure cloud services can be accessed from other sites for recovery and migration purposes. Additionally, you can use StorSimple to configure StorSimple virtual devices on virtual machines (VMs) running in Microsoft Azure. The VMs can then use virtual devices to access stored data for test or recovery purposes. 

The following diagram provides a high-level view of the Microsoft Azure StorSimple solution.

![StorSimple architecture](./media/storsimple-overview/hcs-data-services-storsimple-system-architecture.png)

**Microsoft Azure StorSimple architecture**

## StorSimple components

The Microsoft Azure StorSimple solution includes the following components:

- **Microsoft Azure StorSimple device** – an on-premises hybrid storage array that contains solid state drives (SSDs) and hard disk drives (HDDs), together with redundant controllers and automatic failover capabilities. The controllers manage storage tiering, placing currently used (or hot) data on local storage (in the device or on-premises servers), while moving less frequently used data to the cloud.
- **StorSimple virtual device** – also known as the StorSimple Virtual Appliance, this is a software version of the StorSimple device that replicates the architecture and capabilities of the physical hybrid storage device. The StorSimple virtual device runs on a single node in an Azure virtual machine. The virtual device is appropriate for use in test and small pilot scenarios. You cannot create a StorSimple virtual device on a StorSimple device or an on-premises server.
- **Windows PowerShell for StorSimple** – a command-line interface that you can use to manage the StorSimple device. Windows PowerShell for StorSimple has features that allow you to register your StorSimple device, configure the network interface on your device, install certain types of updates, troubleshoot your device by accessing the support session, and change the device state. You can access Windows PowerShell for StorSimple by connecting to the serial console or by using Windows PowerShell remoting.
- **Azure PowerShell StorSimple cmdlets** – a collection of Windows PowerShell cmdlets that allow you to automate service-level and migration tasks from the command line. For more information about the Azure PowerShell cmdlets for StorSimple, go to the [cmdlet reference](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dn920427.aspx).
- **StorSimple Manager service** – an extension of the Azure Management Portal that lets you manage a StorSimple device or StorSimple virtual device from a single web interface. You can use the StorSimple Manager service to create and manage services, view and manage devices, view alerts, manage volumes, and view and manage backup policies and the backup catalog.
- **StorSimple Snapshot Manager** – an MMC snap-in that uses volume groups and the Windows Volume Shadow Copy Service to generate application-consistent backups. In addition, you can use StorSimple Snapshot Manager to create backup schedules and clone or restore volumes. 
- **StorSimple Adapter for SharePoint** – a tool that transparently extends Microsoft Azure StorSimple storage and data protection to SharePoint Server farms, while making StorSimple storage viewable and manageable from the SharePoint Administration Portal.

## Next steps

Read the [StorSimple Solutions Overview](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/server-cloud/products/storsimple/resources.aspx) and view the [StorSimple chalk talk](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/server-cloud/products/storsimple/Features.aspx).

Read more about [StorSimple components and terminology](storsimple-components.md).

Commit message:

added backup text to intro

articles/storsimple/storsimple-overview.md, after:

<properties 
   pageTitle="What is StorSimple?" 
   description="Describes StorSimple features and architecture, and introduces the StorSimple components." 
   services="storsimple" 
   documentationCenter="NA" 
   authors="SharS" 
   manager="AdinaH" 
   editor=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="storsimple"
   ms.devlang="NA"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="NA"
   ms.workload="TBD" 
   ms.date="08/03/2015"
   ms.author="v-sharos@microsoft.com"/>

# What is StorSimple? 

## Overview

Microsoft Azure StorSimple is an efficient, cost-effective, and manageable solution that eliminates many of the issues and expense associated with enterprise storage and data protection. It uses a proprietary device (the Microsoft Azure StorSimple device), integration with cloud services, and a set of management tools to provide a seamless view of all enterprise storage, including cloud storage.

StorSimple uses storage tiering to manage stored data across various storage media. The current working set is stored on-premises on solid state drives (SSDs), data that is used less frequently is stored on hard disk drives (HDDs), and archival data is pushed to the cloud. Additionally, StorSimple uses deduplication and compression to reduce the amount of storage that the data consumes. The storage tiering process occurs as follows:

1. A system administrator sets up a Microsoft Azure cloud storage account.
2. The administrator uses the serial console and the StorSimple Manager service (running in the Azure Management Portal) to configure the device and file server, creating volumes and data protection policies. The on-premises file server uses the Internet Small Computer System Interface (iSCSI) to access the StorSimple device.
3. Initially, StorSimple stores data on the fast SSD tier of the device.
4. As the SSD tier approaches capacity, StorSimple deduplicates and compresses the oldest data blocks, and moves them to the HDD tier.
5. As the HDD tier approaches capacity, StorSimple encrypts the oldest data blocks and sends them securely to the Microsoft Azure storage account via HTTPS.
6. Microsoft Azure creates multiple replicas of the data in its datacenter and in a remote datacenter, ensuring that the data can be recovered if a disaster occurs. 
7. When the file server requests data stored in the cloud, StorSimple returns it seamlessly and stores a copy on the SSD tier of the StorSimple device.

>[AZURE.NOTE] The StorSimple 8000 series with software update 1 or later supports Amazon S3 with RRS, HP, and OpenStack cloud services as well as Microsoft Azure. For more information, see  [Configure a new storage account](storsimple-deployment-walkthrough.md#configure-a-new-storage-account) in [Deploy your on-premises StorSimple device](storsimple-deployment-walkthrough-u1.md).

In addition to storage management, StorSimple data protection features enable you to create on-demand and scheduled backups, and store them locally or in the cloud. Backups are taken in the form of incremental snapshots, which means that they can be created and restored quickly. Cloud snapshots can be critically important in disaster recovery scenarios because they replace secondary storage systems (such as tape backup), and allow you to restore data to your datacenter or to alternate sites if necessary. 

## Why use StorSimple?

Microsoft Azure StorSimple provides the following benefits:

- **Transparent integration** – Microsoft Azure StorSimple uses the iSCSI protocol to invisibly link data storage facilities. This ensures that data stored in the cloud, at the datacenter, or on remote servers appears to be stored at a single location.
- **Reduced storage costs** – Microsoft Azure StorSimple allocates sufficient local or cloud storage to meet current demands and extends cloud storage only when necessary. It further reduces storage requirements and expense by eliminating redundant versions of the same data (deduplication) and by using compression.
- **Simplified storage management** – Microsoft Azure StorSimple provides system administration tools that you can use to configure and manage data stored on-premises, on a remote server, and in the cloud. Additionally, you can manage backup and restore functions from a Microsoft Management Console (MMC) snap-in. StorSimple provides a separate, optional interface that you can use to extend StorSimple management and data protection services to content stored on SharePoint servers. 
- **Improved disaster recovery and compliance** – Microsoft Azure StorSimple does not require extended recovery time. Instead, it restores data as it is needed. This means normal operations can continue with minimal disruption. Additionally, you can configure policies to specify backup schedules and data retention.
- **Data mobility** – Data uploaded to Microsoft Azure cloud services can be accessed from other sites for recovery and migration purposes. Additionally, you can use StorSimple to configure StorSimple virtual devices on virtual machines (VMs) running in Microsoft Azure. The VMs can then use virtual devices to access stored data for test or recovery purposes. 

The following diagram provides a high-level view of the Microsoft Azure StorSimple solution.

![StorSimple architecture](./media/storsimple-overview/hcs-data-services-storsimple-system-architecture.png)

**Microsoft Azure StorSimple architecture**

## StorSimple components

The Microsoft Azure StorSimple solution includes the following components:

- **Microsoft Azure StorSimple device** – an on-premises hybrid storage array that contains solid state drives (SSDs) and hard disk drives (HDDs), together with redundant controllers and automatic failover capabilities. The controllers manage storage tiering, placing currently used (or hot) data on local storage (in the device or on-premises servers), while moving less frequently used data to the cloud.
- **StorSimple virtual device** – also known as the StorSimple Virtual Appliance, this is a software version of the StorSimple device that replicates the architecture and capabilities of the physical hybrid storage device. The StorSimple virtual device runs on a single node in an Azure virtual machine. The virtual device is appropriate for use in test and small pilot scenarios. You cannot create a StorSimple virtual device on a StorSimple device or an on-premises server.
- **Windows PowerShell for StorSimple** – a command-line interface that you can use to manage the StorSimple device. Windows PowerShell for StorSimple has features that allow you to register your StorSimple device, configure the network interface on your device, install certain types of updates, troubleshoot your device by accessing the support session, and change the device state. You can access Windows PowerShell for StorSimple by connecting to the serial console or by using Windows PowerShell remoting.
- **Azure PowerShell StorSimple cmdlets** – a collection of Windows PowerShell cmdlets that allow you to automate service-level and migration tasks from the command line. For more information about the Azure PowerShell cmdlets for StorSimple, go to the [cmdlet reference](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dn920427.aspx).
- **StorSimple Manager service** – an extension of the Azure Management Portal that lets you manage a StorSimple device or StorSimple virtual device from a single web interface. You can use the StorSimple Manager service to create and manage services, view and manage devices, view alerts, manage volumes, and view and manage backup policies and the backup catalog.
- **StorSimple Snapshot Manager** – an MMC snap-in that uses volume groups and the Windows Volume Shadow Copy Service to generate application-consistent backups. In addition, you can use StorSimple Snapshot Manager to create backup schedules and clone or restore volumes. 
- **StorSimple Adapter for SharePoint** – a tool that transparently extends Microsoft Azure StorSimple storage and data protection to SharePoint Server farms, while making StorSimple storage viewable and manageable from the SharePoint Administration Portal.

## Next steps

Read the [StorSimple Solutions Overview](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/server-cloud/products/storsimple/resources.aspx) and view the [StorSimple chalk talk](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/server-cloud/products/storsimple/Features.aspx).

Read more about [StorSimple components and terminology](storsimple-components.md).
