articles/storsimple/storsimple-clone-volume-u2.md, before:

<properties
   pageTitle="Clone your StorSimple volume | Microsoft Azure"
   description="Describes the different clone types and when to use them, and explains how you can use a backup set to clone an individual volume."
   services="storsimple"
   documentationCenter="NA"
   authors="alkohli"
   manager="carmonm"
   editor="" />
<tags 
   ms.service="storsimple"
   ms.devlang="NA"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="NA"
   ms.workload="TBD"
   ms.date="04/19/2016"
   ms.author="alkohli" />

# Use the StorSimple Manager service to clone a volume (Update 2)

[AZURE.INCLUDE [storsimple-version-selector-clone-volume](../../includes/storsimple-version-selector-clone-volume.md)]

## Overview

The StorSimple Manager service **Backup Catalog** page displays all the backup sets that are created when manual or automated backups are taken. You can use this page to list all the backups for a backup policy or a volume, select or delete backups, or use a backup to restore or clone a volume.

![Backup catalog page](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/backupCatalog.png)  

This tutorial describes how you can use a backup set to clone an individual volume. It also explains the difference between *transient* and *permanent* clones.

>[AZURE.NOTE] 
>
>A locally pinned volume will be cloned as a tiered volume. If you need the cloned volume to be locally pinned, you can convert the clone to a locally pinned volume after the clone operation is successfully completed. For information about converting a tiered volume to a locally pinned volume, go to [Change the volume type](storsimple-manage-volumes-u2.md#change-the-volume-type).
>
>If you try to convert a cloned volume from tiered to locally pinned immediately after cloning (when it is still a transient clone), the conversion will fail with the following error message:
>
>`Unable to modify the usage type for volume {0}. This can happen if the volume being modified is a transient clone and hasn’t been made permanent. Take a cloud snapshot of this volume and then retry the modify operation.` 
>
>This error is received only if you are cloning on to a different device. You can successfully convert the volume to locally pinned if you first convert the transient clone to a permanent clone. To convert the transient clone to a permanent clone, take a cloud snapshot of it.

## Create a clone of a volume

You can create a clone on the same device, another device, or even a virtual machine by using a local or cloud snapshot.

#### To clone a volume

1. On the StorSimple Manager service page, click the **Backup catalog** tab and select a backup set.

2. Expand the backup set to view the associated volumes. Click and select a volume from the backup set.

     ![Clone a volume](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/CloneVol.png) 

3. Click **Clone** to begin cloning the selected volume.

4. In the Clone Volume wizard, under **Specify name and location**:

  1. Identify a target device. This is the location where the clone will be created. You can choose the same device or specify another device. If you choose a volume associated with other cloud service providers (not Azure), the drop-down list for the target device will only show physical devices. You cannot clone a volume associated with other cloud service providers on a virtual device.

        >[AZURE.NOTE] Make sure that the capacity required for the clone is lower than the capacity available on the target device.

  2. Specify a unique volume name for your clone. The name must contain between 3 and 127 characters. 
    
        >[AZURE.NOTE] The **Clone Volume As** field will be **Tiered** even if you are cloning a locally pinned volume. You cannot change this setting; however, if you need the cloned volume to be locally pinned as well, you can convert the clone to a locally pinned volume after you successfully create the clone. For information about converting a tiered volume to a locally pinned volume, go to [Change the volume type](storsimple-manage-volumes-u2.md#change-the-volume-type).

        ![Clone wizard 1](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/clone1.png) 

  3. Click the arrow icon ![arrow-icon](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/HCS_ArrowIcon.png) to proceed to the next page.

5. Under **Specify hosts that can use this volume**:

  1. Specify an access control record (ACR) for the clone. You can add a new ACR or choose from the existing list.

        ![Clone wizard 2](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/clone2.png) 

  2. Click the check icon ![check-icon](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/HCS_CheckIcon.png)to complete the operation.

6. A clone job will be initiated and you will be notified when the clone is successfully created. Click **View Job** to monitor the clone job on the **Jobs** page. You will see the following message when the clone job is finished:

    ![Clone message](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/CloneMsg.png) 

7. After the clone job is completed:

  1. Go to the **Devices** page, and select the **Volume Containers** tab. 
  2. Select the volume container that is associated with the source volume that you cloned. In the list of volumes, you should see the clone that was just created.

>[AZURE.NOTE] Monitoring and default backup are automatically disabled on a cloned volume.

A clone that is created this way is a transient clone. For more information about clone types, see [Transient vs. permanent clones](#transient-vs.-permanent-clones).

This clone is now a regular volume, and any operation that is possible on a volume will be available for the clone. You will need to configure this volume for any backups.

## Transient vs. permanent clones

Transient and permanent clones are created only when you are cloning on to a different device. You can clone a specific volume from a backup set to a different device. A clone created in this way is a *transient* clone. The transient clone will have references to the original volume and will use that volume to read while writing locally. 

After you take a cloud snapshot of a transient clone, the resulting clone will be a *permanent* clone. The permanent clone is independent and doesn’t have any references to the original volume that it was cloned from.  

## Scenarios for transient and permanent clones

The following sections describe example situations in which transient and permanent clones can be used.

### Item-level recovery with a transient clone

You need to recover a one-year-old Microsoft PowerPoint presentation file. Your IT administrator identifies the specific backup from that time frame, and then filters the volume. The administrator then clones the volume, locates the file that you are looking for, and provides it to you. In this scenario, a transient clone is used. 
 
![Video available](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/Video_icon.png) **Video available**

To watch a video that demonstrates how you can use the clone and restore features in StorSimple to recover deleted files, click [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/videos/storsimple-recover-deleted-files-with-storsimple/).

### Testing in the production environment with a permanent clone

You need to verify a testing bug in the production environment. You create a clone of the volume in the production environment and then take a cloud snapshot of this clone to create an independent cloned volume. In this scenario, a permanent clone is used.  

## Next steps
- Learn how to [restore a StorSimple volume from a backup set](storsimple-restore-from-backup-set-u2.md).

- Learn how to [use the StorSimple Manager service to administer your StorSimple device](storsimple-manager-service-administration.md).

Commit message:

Added info on data copy when creating a permanent clone

articles/storsimple/storsimple-clone-volume-u2.md, after:

<properties
   pageTitle="Clone your StorSimple volume | Microsoft Azure"
   description="Describes the different clone types and when to use them, and explains how you can use a backup set to clone an individual volume."
   services="storsimple"
   documentationCenter="NA"
   authors="alkohli"
   manager="carmonm"
   editor="" />
<tags 
   ms.service="storsimple"
   ms.devlang="NA"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="NA"
   ms.workload="TBD"
   ms.date="07/26/2016"
   ms.author="alkohli" />

# Use the StorSimple Manager service to clone a volume (Update 2)

[AZURE.INCLUDE [storsimple-version-selector-clone-volume](../../includes/storsimple-version-selector-clone-volume.md)]

## Overview

The StorSimple Manager service **Backup Catalog** page displays all the backup sets that are created when manual or automated backups are taken. You can use this page to list all the backups for a backup policy or a volume, select or delete backups, or use a backup to restore or clone a volume.

![Backup catalog page](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/backupCatalog.png)  

This tutorial describes how you can use a backup set to clone an individual volume. It also explains the difference between *transient* and *permanent* clones.

>[AZURE.NOTE] 
>
>A locally pinned volume will be cloned as a tiered volume. If you need the cloned volume to be locally pinned, you can convert the clone to a locally pinned volume after the clone operation is successfully completed. For information about converting a tiered volume to a locally pinned volume, go to [Change the volume type](storsimple-manage-volumes-u2.md#change-the-volume-type).
>
>If you try to convert a cloned volume from tiered to locally pinned immediately after cloning (when it is still a transient clone), the conversion will fail with the following error message:
>
>`Unable to modify the usage type for volume {0}. This can happen if the volume being modified is a transient clone and hasn’t been made permanent. Take a cloud snapshot of this volume and then retry the modify operation.` 
>
>This error is received only if you are cloning on to a different device. You can successfully convert the volume to locally pinned if you first convert the transient clone to a permanent clone. To convert the transient clone to a permanent clone, take a cloud snapshot of it.

## Create a clone of a volume

You can create a clone on the same device, another device, or even a virtual machine by using a local or cloud snapshot.

#### To clone a volume

1. On the StorSimple Manager service page, click the **Backup catalog** tab and select a backup set.

2. Expand the backup set to view the associated volumes. Click and select a volume from the backup set.

     ![Clone a volume](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/CloneVol.png) 

3. Click **Clone** to begin cloning the selected volume.

4. In the Clone Volume wizard, under **Specify name and location**:

  1. Identify a target device. This is the location where the clone will be created. You can choose the same device or specify another device. If you choose a volume associated with other cloud service providers (not Azure), the drop-down list for the target device will only show physical devices. You cannot clone a volume associated with other cloud service providers on a virtual device.

        >[AZURE.NOTE] Make sure that the capacity required for the clone is lower than the capacity available on the target device.

  2. Specify a unique volume name for your clone. The name must contain between 3 and 127 characters. 
    
        >[AZURE.NOTE] The **Clone Volume As** field will be **Tiered** even if you are cloning a locally pinned volume. You cannot change this setting; however, if you need the cloned volume to be locally pinned as well, you can convert the clone to a locally pinned volume after you successfully create the clone. For information about converting a tiered volume to a locally pinned volume, go to [Change the volume type](storsimple-manage-volumes-u2.md#change-the-volume-type).

        ![Clone wizard 1](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/clone1.png) 

  3. Click the arrow icon ![arrow-icon](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/HCS_ArrowIcon.png) to proceed to the next page.

5. Under **Specify hosts that can use this volume**:

  1. Specify an access control record (ACR) for the clone. You can add a new ACR or choose from the existing list.

        ![Clone wizard 2](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/clone2.png) 

  2. Click the check icon ![check-icon](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/HCS_CheckIcon.png)to complete the operation.

6. A clone job will be initiated and you will be notified when the clone is successfully created. Click **View Job** to monitor the clone job on the **Jobs** page. You will see the following message when the clone job is finished:

    ![Clone message](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/CloneMsg.png) 

7. After the clone job is completed:

  1. Go to the **Devices** page, and select the **Volume Containers** tab. 
  2. Select the volume container that is associated with the source volume that you cloned. In the list of volumes, you should see the clone that was just created.

>[AZURE.NOTE] Monitoring and default backup are automatically disabled on a cloned volume.

A clone that is created this way is a transient clone. For more information about clone types, see [Transient vs. permanent clones](#transient-vs.-permanent-clones).

This clone is now a regular volume, and any operation that is possible on a volume will be available for the clone. You will need to configure this volume for any backups.

## Transient vs. permanent clones

Transient and permanent clones are created only when you are cloning on to a different device. You can clone a specific volume from a backup set to a different device. A clone created in this way is a *transient* clone. The transient clone will have references to the original volume and will use that volume to read while writing locally. 

After you take a cloud snapshot of a transient clone, the resulting clone will be a *permanent* clone. During this process, a copy of the data is created and the time to copy is determined by the size of the data and the Azure latencies (this is an Azure-to-Azure copy). This process can take days to weeks. The permanent clone created this way is independent and doesn’t have any references to the original volume that it was cloned from. 

## Scenarios for transient and permanent clones

The following sections describe example situations in which transient and permanent clones can be used.

### Item-level recovery with a transient clone

You need to recover a one-year-old Microsoft PowerPoint presentation file. Your IT administrator identifies the specific backup from that time frame, and then filters the volume. The administrator then clones the volume, locates the file that you are looking for, and provides it to you. In this scenario, a transient clone is used. 
 
![Video available](./media/storsimple-clone-volume-u2/Video_icon.png) **Video available**

To watch a video that demonstrates how you can use the clone and restore features in StorSimple to recover deleted files, click [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/videos/storsimple-recover-deleted-files-with-storsimple/).

### Testing in the production environment with a permanent clone

You need to verify a testing bug in the production environment. You create a clone of the volume in the production environment and then take a cloud snapshot of this clone to create an independent cloned volume. In this scenario, a permanent clone is used.  

## Next steps
- Learn how to [restore a StorSimple volume from a backup set](storsimple-restore-from-backup-set-u2.md).

- Learn how to [use the StorSimple Manager service to administer your StorSimple device](storsimple-manager-service-administration.md).
