articles/data-factory/data-factory-stored-proc-activity.md, before:

<properties 
	pageTitle="SQL Server Stored Procedure Activity" 
	description="Learn how you can use the SQL Server Stored Procedure Activity to invoke a stored procedure in an Azure SQL Database from a Data Factory pipeline." 
	services="data-factory" 
	documentationCenter="" 
	authors="spelluru" 
	manager="jhubbard" 
	editor="monicar"/>

<tags 
	ms.service="data-factory" 
	ms.workload="data-services" 
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na" 
	ms.devlang="na" 
	ms.topic="article" 
	ms.date="08/04/2015" 
	ms.author="spelluru"/>

# SQL Server Stored Procedure Activity

You can use the SQL Server Stored Procedure activity in a Data Factory [pipeline](data-factory-create-pipelines.md) to invoke a stored procedure in an **Azure SQL** Database. This article builds on the [data transformation activities](data-factory-data-transformation-activities.md) article which presents a general overview of data transformation and the supported transformation activities.

## Syntax
	{
    	"name": "SQLSPROCActivity",
    	"description": "description", 
    	"type": "SqlServerStoredProcedure",
    	"inputs":  [ { "name": "inputtable"  } ],
    	"outputs":  [ { "name": "outputtable" } ],
    	"typeProperties":
    	{
        	"storedProcedureName": “”,
        	"storedProcedureParameters": “” 
        	{
				"param1": "param1Value"
				…
        	}
    	}
	}

## Syntax details

Property | Description | Required
-------- | ----------- | --------
name | Name of the activity | Yes
description | Text describing what the activity is used for | No
type | SqlServerStoredProcedure | Yes
inputs | Input(s) that must be available (in ‘Ready’ status) for the stored procedure activity to execute | No
outputs | Output(s) produced by the stored procedure activity | Yes
storedProcedureName | Specify the name of the stored procedure in the Azure SQL database that is represented by the  linked service that the output table uses. | Yes
storedProcedureParameters | Specify values for stored procedure parameters | No

> [AZURE.NOTE] The input(s) to the stored procedure activity is only used for dependency management and chaining this activity with others. The input(s) cannot be consumed in the stored procedure as a parameter.
 

## Example

Let’s consider an example where you want to create a table in Azure SQL database that has two columns: 

Column | Type
------ | ----
ID | An uniqueidentifier
Datetime | Date & time when the corresponding ID was generated

![Sample data](./media/data-factory-stored-proc-activity/sample-data.png)

	CREATE PROCEDURE sp_sample @DateTime nvarchar(127)
	AS
	
	BEGIN
	    INSERT INTO [sampletable]
	    VALUES (newid(), @DateTime)
	END

To execute this stored procedure in a Data Factory pipeline, you need to the do the following:

1.	Create a [linked service](data-factory-azure-sql-connector.md/#azure-sql-linked-service-properties)  to register the connection string of the Azure SQL database where the stored procedure should be executed.
2.	Create a [dataset](data-factory-azure-sql-connector.md/#azure-sql-dataset-type-properties)  pointing to the output table in the Azure SQL database. Let’s call this dataset sprocsampleout. This dataset should reference the linked service in step #1. 
3.	Create the stored procedure in the Azure SQL Database.
4.	Create the below [pipeline](data-factory-azure-sql-connector.md/#azure-sql-copy-activity-type-properties)  with the SqlServerStoredProcedure activity to invoke the stored procedure in Azure SQL Database.

		{
		    "name": "SprocActivitySamplePipeline",
		    "properties":
		    {
		        "activities":
		        [
		            {
		             "name": "SprocActivitySample",
		             "type": " SqlServerStoredProcedure ",
		             "outputs": [ {"name": "sprocsampleout"} ],
		             "typeproperties":
		              {
		                "storedProcedureName": "sp_sample",
		        		"storedProcedureParameters": 
		        		{
		            	"DateTime": "$$Text.Format('{0:yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss}', SliceStart)"
		        		}
				}
		            }
		          ]
		     }
		}
5.	Deploy the [pipeline](data-factory-create-pipelines.md).
6.	[Monitor the pipeline](data-factory-monitor-manage-pipelines.md) using the data factory monitoring and management views.

> [AZURE.NOTE] In the above example, the SprocActivitySample has no inputs. If you want to chain this with an activity upstream, the output(s) of the upstream activity can be used as input(s) in this activity.  In which case, this activity will not execute until the upstream activity is completed and the output(s) are available (in Ready status). The input(s) cannot be used directly as a parameter to the stored procedure activity
> 
> The names and casing (upper/lower) of stored procedure parameters in the JSON file must match the names of stored procedure parameters in the target database.

Now, let’s consider adding another column named ‘Scenario’ in the table containing a static value called ‘Document sample’.

![Sample data 2](./media/data-factory-stored-proc-activity/sample-data-2.png)

	CREATE PROCEDURE sp_sample @DateTime nvarchar(127) , @Scenario nvarchar(127)
	
	AS
	
	BEGIN
	    INSERT INTO [sampletable]
	    VALUES (newid(), @DateTime, @Scenario)
	END

To accomplish this, pass the Scenario parameter and the value from the stored procedure activity. The typeproperties section in the above sample looks like this:

	"typeproperties":
	{
		"storedProcedureName": "sp_sample",
	    "storedProcedureParameters": 
	    {
	    	"DateTime": "$$Text.Format('{0:yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss}', SliceStart)",
			"Scenario": "Document sample"
		}
	}

Commit message:

added details for the output table

articles/data-factory/data-factory-stored-proc-activity.md, after:

<properties 
	pageTitle="SQL Server Stored Procedure Activity" 
	description="Learn how you can use the SQL Server Stored Procedure Activity to invoke a stored procedure in an Azure SQL Database from a Data Factory pipeline." 
	services="data-factory" 
	documentationCenter="" 
	authors="spelluru" 
	manager="jhubbard" 
	editor="monicar"/>

<tags 
	ms.service="data-factory" 
	ms.workload="data-services" 
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na" 
	ms.devlang="na" 
	ms.topic="article" 
	ms.date="08/04/2015" 
	ms.author="spelluru"/>

# SQL Server Stored Procedure Activity

You can use the SQL Server Stored Procedure activity in a Data Factory [pipeline](data-factory-create-pipelines.md) to invoke a stored procedure in an **Azure SQL** Database. This article builds on the [data transformation activities](data-factory-data-transformation-activities.md) article which presents a general overview of data transformation and the supported transformation activities.

## Syntax
	{
    	"name": "SQLSPROCActivity",
    	"description": "description", 
    	"type": "SqlServerStoredProcedure",
    	"inputs":  [ { "name": "inputtable"  } ],
    	"outputs":  [ { "name": "outputtable" } ],
    	"typeProperties":
    	{
        	"storedProcedureName": “”,
        	"storedProcedureParameters": “” 
        	{
				"param1": "param1Value"
				…
        	}
    	}
	}

## Syntax details

Property | Description | Required
-------- | ----------- | --------
name | Name of the activity | Yes
description | Text describing what the activity is used for | No
type | SqlServerStoredProcedure | Yes
inputs | Input(s) that must be available (in ‘Ready’ status) for the stored procedure activity to execute | No
outputs | Output(s) produced by the stored procedure activity. Ensure that the output table uses a linked service that links an Azure SQL Database to the data factory. | Yes
storedProcedureName | Specify the name of the stored procedure in the Azure SQL database that is represented by the  linked service that the output table uses. | Yes
storedProcedureParameters | Specify values for stored procedure parameters | No

> [AZURE.NOTE] The input(s) to the stored procedure activity is only used for dependency management and chaining this activity with others. The input(s) cannot be consumed in the stored procedure as a parameter.
 

## Example

Let’s consider an example where you want to create a table in Azure SQL database that has two columns: 

Column | Type
------ | ----
ID | An uniqueidentifier
Datetime | Date & time when the corresponding ID was generated

![Sample data](./media/data-factory-stored-proc-activity/sample-data.png)

	CREATE PROCEDURE sp_sample @DateTime nvarchar(127)
	AS
	
	BEGIN
	    INSERT INTO [sampletable]
	    VALUES (newid(), @DateTime)
	END

To execute this stored procedure in a Data Factory pipeline, you need to the do the following:

1.	Create a [linked service](data-factory-azure-sql-connector.md/#azure-sql-linked-service-properties)  to register the connection string of the Azure SQL database where the stored procedure should be executed.
2.	Create a [dataset](data-factory-azure-sql-connector.md/#azure-sql-dataset-type-properties)  pointing to the output table in the Azure SQL database. Let’s call this dataset sprocsampleout. This dataset should reference the linked service in step #1. 
3.	Create the stored procedure in the Azure SQL Database.
4.	Create the below [pipeline](data-factory-azure-sql-connector.md/#azure-sql-copy-activity-type-properties)  with the SqlServerStoredProcedure activity to invoke the stored procedure in Azure SQL Database.

		{
		    "name": "SprocActivitySamplePipeline",
		    "properties":
		    {
		        "activities":
		        [
		            {
		             "name": "SprocActivitySample",
		             "type": " SqlServerStoredProcedure ",
		             "outputs": [ {"name": "sprocsampleout"} ],
		             "typeproperties":
		              {
		                "storedProcedureName": "sp_sample",
		        		"storedProcedureParameters": 
		        		{
		            	"DateTime": "$$Text.Format('{0:yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss}', SliceStart)"
		        		}
				}
		            }
		          ]
		     }
		}
5.	Deploy the [pipeline](data-factory-create-pipelines.md).
6.	[Monitor the pipeline](data-factory-monitor-manage-pipelines.md) using the data factory monitoring and management views.

> [AZURE.NOTE] In the above example, the SprocActivitySample has no inputs. If you want to chain this with an activity upstream, the output(s) of the upstream activity can be used as input(s) in this activity.  In which case, this activity will not execute until the upstream activity is completed and the output(s) are available (in Ready status). The input(s) cannot be used directly as a parameter to the stored procedure activity
> 
> The names and casing (upper/lower) of stored procedure parameters in the JSON file must match the names of stored procedure parameters in the target database.

Now, let’s consider adding another column named ‘Scenario’ in the table containing a static value called ‘Document sample’.

![Sample data 2](./media/data-factory-stored-proc-activity/sample-data-2.png)

	CREATE PROCEDURE sp_sample @DateTime nvarchar(127) , @Scenario nvarchar(127)
	
	AS
	
	BEGIN
	    INSERT INTO [sampletable]
	    VALUES (newid(), @DateTime, @Scenario)
	END

To accomplish this, pass the Scenario parameter and the value from the stored procedure activity. The typeproperties section in the above sample looks like this:

	"typeproperties":
	{
		"storedProcedureName": "sp_sample",
	    "storedProcedureParameters": 
	    {
	    	"DateTime": "$$Text.Format('{0:yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss}', SliceStart)",
			"Scenario": "Document sample"
		}
	}
