articles/iot-suite/iot-suite-dynamic-telemetry.md, before:

<properties
	pageTitle="Use dynamic telemetry | Microsoft Azure"
	description="Follow this tutorial to learn how to use dynamic telemetry with the remote monitoring preconfigured solution."
	services=""
    suite="iot-suite"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="dominicbetts"
	manager="timlt"
	editor=""/>

<tags
     ms.service="iot-suite"
     ms.devlang="na"
     ms.topic="article"
     ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
     ms.workload="na"
     ms.date="06/07/2016"
     ms.author="dobett"/>

# Use dynamic telemetry with the remote monitoring preconfigured solution

## Introduction

Dynamic telemetry enables you to visualize any telemetry sent to the remote monitoring preconfigured solution. The simulated devices that deploy with the preconfigured solution send temperature and humidity telemetry which you can visualize on the dashboard. If you customize the existing simulated devices, create new simulated devices, or connect physical devices to the preconfigured solution you can send other telemetry values such as the external temperature, RPM, or windspeed. You can then visualize this additional telemetry on the dashboard.

This tutorial uses a simple Node.js simulated device that you can easily modify to experiment with dynamic telemetry.

In order to complete this tutorial, you’ll need:

- An active Azure subscription. If you don’t have an account, you can create a free trial account in just a couple of minutes. For details, see [Azure Free Trial][lnk_free_trial].
- [Node.js][lnk-node] version 0.12.x or later.

You can complete this tutorial on any operating system, such as Windows or Linux, where you can install Node.js.

[AZURE.INCLUDE [iot-suite-provision-remote-monitoring](../../includes/iot-suite-provision-remote-monitoring.md)]

## Configure the Node.js simulated device

1. On the remote monitoring dashboard, click **+ Add a device** and then add a new custom device. Make a note of the IoT Hub hostname, device id, and device key. You will need them later in this tutorial when you prepare the remote_monitoring.js device client application.

2. Ensure that Node.js version 0.12.x or later is installed on your development machine. Run `node --version` at a command prompt or in a shell to check the version. For information about using a package manager to install Node.js on Linux, see [Installing Node.js via package manager][node-linux].

3. When you have installed Node.js, clone the latest version of the [azure-iot-sdks][lnk-github-repo] repository to your development machine. You should always use the **master** branch for the latest version of the libraries and samples.

4. From your local copy of the [azure-iot-sdks][lnk-github-repo] repository, copy the following two files from the node/device/samples folder to an empty folder on your development machine:

  - packages.json
  - remote_monitoring.js

5. Open the remote_monitoring.js file and look for the following variable definition:

    ```
    var connectionString = "[IoT Hub device connection string]";
    ```

6. Replace **[IoT Hub device connection string]** with your device connection string. Use the values for your IoT Hub hostname, device id, and device key that you made a note of in step 1. A device connection string has the following format:

    ```
    HostName={your IoT Hub hostname};DeviceId={your device id};SharedAccessKey={your device key}
    ```

    If your IoT Hub hostname is **contoso** and your device id is **mydevice**, your connection string will look like this:

    ```
    var connectionString = "HostName=contoso.azure-devices.net;DeviceId=mydevice;SharedAccessKey=2s ... =="
    ```

7. Save the file. Run the following commands in a shell or command prompt in the folder that contains these files to install the necessary packages and then run the sample application:

    ```
    npm install
    node remote_monitoring.js
    ```

## Observe dynamic telemetry in action

The dashboard shows the temperature and humidity telemetry from the existing simulated devices:

![The default dashboard][image1]

If you select the Node.js simulated device you ran in the previous section, you see temperature, humidity, and external temperature telemetry:

![Add external temperature to the dashboard][image2]

The remote monitoring solution automatically detects the additional external temperature telemetry type and adds it to the chart on the dashboard.

## Add a new telemetry type

The next step is to replace the telemetry generated by the Node.js simulated device with a new set of values:

1. Stop the Node.js simulated device by typing **Ctrl+C** in your command prompt or shell.

2. In the remote_monitoring.js file, you can see the base data values for the existing temperature, humidity, and external temperature telemetry. Add a new base data value for **rpm** as follows:

    ```
    // Sensors data
    var temperature = 50;
    var humidity = 50;
    var externalTemperature = 55;
    var rpm = 200;
    ```

3. The Node.js simulated device generates telemetry by adding a random increment to the base data values using the **generateRandomIncrement** function in the remote_monitoring.js file. Randomize the **rpm** value by adding a line of code after the existing randomizations as follows:

    ```
    temperature += generateRandomIncrement();
    externalTemperature += generateRandomIncrement();
    humidity += generateRandomIncrement();
    rpm += generateRandomIncrement();
    ```

4. Add the new rpm value to the JSON payload the device sends to IoT Hub:

    ```
    var data = JSON.stringify({
      'DeviceID': deviceId,
      'Temperature': temperature,
      'Humidity': humidity,
      'ExternalTemperature': externalTemperature,
      'RPM': rpm
    });
    ```

5. Run the Node.js simulated device using the following command:

    ```
    node remote_monitoring.js
    ```

6. Observe the new RPM telemetry type that displays on the chart in the dashboard:

![Add RPM to the dashboard][image3]

> [AZURE.NOTE] You may need to disable and then enable the Node.js device on the **Devices** page in the dashboard to see the change immediately.

## Customize the dashboard display

The **Device-Info** message can include metadata about the telemetry the device can send to IoT Hub. This metadata can specify the telemetry types the device sends. Modify the **deviceMetaData** value in the remote_monitoring.js file to include a **Telemetry** definition following the **Commands** definition as shown in the following code snippet (be sure to add a `,` after the **Commands** definition):

```
'Commands': [{
  'Name': 'SetTemperature',
  'Parameters': [{
    'Name': 'Temperature',
    'Type': 'double'
  }]
},
{
  'Name': 'SetHumidity',
  'Parameters': [{
    'Name': 'Humidity',
    'Type': 'double'
  }]
}],
'Telemetry': [{
  'Name': 'Temperature',
  'Type': 'double'
},
{
  'Name': 'Humidity',
  'Type': 'double'
},
{
  'Name': 'ExternalTemperature',
  'Type': 'double'
}]
```

> [AZURE.NOTE] The remote monitoring solution uses a case insensitive match to compare the metadata definition with data in the telemetry stream.

Adding a **Telemetry** definition as above to the sample, does not change the behavior of the dashboard. However, the metadata can also include a **DisplayName** attribute to customize the display in the dashboard. Update the **Telemetry** metadata definition as follows:

```
'Telemetry': [
{
  'Name': 'Temperature',
  'Type': 'double',
  'DisplayName': 'Temperature (C*)'
},
{
  'Name': 'Humidity',
  'Type': 'double',
  'DisplayName': 'Humidity (relative)'
},
{
  'Name': 'ExternalTemperature',
  'Type': 'double',
  'DisplayName': 'Outdoor Temperature (C*)'
}
]
```

The following screenshot shows how this change modifies the chart legend on the dashboard:

![Customize the chart legend][image4]

> [AZURE.NOTE] You may need to disable and then enable the Node.js device on the **Devices** page in the dashboard to see the change immediately.

## Filter the telemetry types

By default, the chart on the dashboard shows every data series in the telemetry stream. You can use the **Device-Info** metadata to suppress the display of specific telemetry types on the chart. 

To make the chart show only Temperature and Humidity telemetry, omit **ExternalTemperature** from the **Device-Info** **Telemetry** metadata as follows:

```
'Telemetry': [
{
  'Name': 'Temperature',
  'Type': 'double',
  'DisplayName': 'Temperature (C*)'
},
{
  'Name': 'Humidity',
  'Type': 'double',
  'DisplayName': 'Humidity (relative)'
},
//{
//  'Name': 'ExternalTemperature',
//  'Type': 'double',
//  'DisplayName': 'Outdoor Temperature (C*)'
//}
]
```

The **Outdoor Temperature** no longer displays on the chart:

![Filter the telemetry on the dashboard][image5]

Note that this only affects the chart display, the data **ExternalTemperature** values are still stored and made available for any backend processing.

> [AZURE.NOTE] You may need to disable and then enable the Node.js device on the **Devices** page in the dashboard to see the change immediately.

## Handle errors

For a data stream to display on the chart, its **Type** in the **Device-Info** metadata must match the data type of the telemetry values. For example, if the metadata specifies that the **Type** of humidity data is **int** and a **double** is found in the telemetry stream then the humidity telemetry does not display on the chart. However, the **Humidity** values are still stored and made available for any backend processing.

## Next steps

Now that you’ve built a working preconfigured solution, you can move on to the following walkthroughs:

-   [Guidance on customizing preconfigured solutions][lnk-customize]
-   [Predictive maintenance preconfigured solution overview][lnk-predictive]

[image1]: media/iot-suite-dynamic-telemetry/image1.png
[image2]: media/iot-suite-dynamic-telemetry/image2.png
[image3]: media/iot-suite-dynamic-telemetry/image3.png
[image4]: media/iot-suite-dynamic-telemetry/image4.png
[image5]: media/iot-suite-dynamic-telemetry/image5.png

[lnk_free_trial]: http://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/
[lnk-customize]: iot-suite-guidance-on-customizing-preconfigured-solutions.md
[lnk-predictive]: iot-suite-predictive-overview.md
[lnk-node]: http://nodejs.org
[node-linux]: https://github.com/nodejs/node-v0.x-archive/wiki/Installing-Node.js-via-package-manager
[lnk-github-repo]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdks

Commit message:

Update Next steps for customizing and predictive maintenance

articles/iot-suite/iot-suite-dynamic-telemetry.md, after:

<properties
	pageTitle="Use dynamic telemetry | Microsoft Azure"
	description="Follow this tutorial to learn how to use dynamic telemetry with the remote monitoring preconfigured solution."
	services=""
    suite="iot-suite"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="dominicbetts"
	manager="timlt"
	editor=""/>

<tags
     ms.service="iot-suite"
     ms.devlang="na"
     ms.topic="article"
     ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
     ms.workload="na"
     ms.date="06/07/2016"
     ms.author="dobett"/>

# Use dynamic telemetry with the remote monitoring preconfigured solution

## Introduction

Dynamic telemetry enables you to visualize any telemetry sent to the remote monitoring preconfigured solution. The simulated devices that deploy with the preconfigured solution send temperature and humidity telemetry which you can visualize on the dashboard. If you customize the existing simulated devices, create new simulated devices, or connect physical devices to the preconfigured solution you can send other telemetry values such as the external temperature, RPM, or windspeed. You can then visualize this additional telemetry on the dashboard.

This tutorial uses a simple Node.js simulated device that you can easily modify to experiment with dynamic telemetry.

In order to complete this tutorial, you’ll need:

- An active Azure subscription. If you don’t have an account, you can create a free trial account in just a couple of minutes. For details, see [Azure Free Trial][lnk_free_trial].
- [Node.js][lnk-node] version 0.12.x or later.

You can complete this tutorial on any operating system, such as Windows or Linux, where you can install Node.js.

[AZURE.INCLUDE [iot-suite-provision-remote-monitoring](../../includes/iot-suite-provision-remote-monitoring.md)]

## Configure the Node.js simulated device

1. On the remote monitoring dashboard, click **+ Add a device** and then add a new custom device. Make a note of the IoT Hub hostname, device id, and device key. You will need them later in this tutorial when you prepare the remote_monitoring.js device client application.

2. Ensure that Node.js version 0.12.x or later is installed on your development machine. Run `node --version` at a command prompt or in a shell to check the version. For information about using a package manager to install Node.js on Linux, see [Installing Node.js via package manager][node-linux].

3. When you have installed Node.js, clone the latest version of the [azure-iot-sdks][lnk-github-repo] repository to your development machine. You should always use the **master** branch for the latest version of the libraries and samples.

4. From your local copy of the [azure-iot-sdks][lnk-github-repo] repository, copy the following two files from the node/device/samples folder to an empty folder on your development machine:

  - packages.json
  - remote_monitoring.js

5. Open the remote_monitoring.js file and look for the following variable definition:

    ```
    var connectionString = "[IoT Hub device connection string]";
    ```

6. Replace **[IoT Hub device connection string]** with your device connection string. Use the values for your IoT Hub hostname, device id, and device key that you made a note of in step 1. A device connection string has the following format:

    ```
    HostName={your IoT Hub hostname};DeviceId={your device id};SharedAccessKey={your device key}
    ```

    If your IoT Hub hostname is **contoso** and your device id is **mydevice**, your connection string will look like this:

    ```
    var connectionString = "HostName=contoso.azure-devices.net;DeviceId=mydevice;SharedAccessKey=2s ... =="
    ```

7. Save the file. Run the following commands in a shell or command prompt in the folder that contains these files to install the necessary packages and then run the sample application:

    ```
    npm install
    node remote_monitoring.js
    ```

## Observe dynamic telemetry in action

The dashboard shows the temperature and humidity telemetry from the existing simulated devices:

![The default dashboard][image1]

If you select the Node.js simulated device you ran in the previous section, you see temperature, humidity, and external temperature telemetry:

![Add external temperature to the dashboard][image2]

The remote monitoring solution automatically detects the additional external temperature telemetry type and adds it to the chart on the dashboard.

## Add a new telemetry type

The next step is to replace the telemetry generated by the Node.js simulated device with a new set of values:

1. Stop the Node.js simulated device by typing **Ctrl+C** in your command prompt or shell.

2. In the remote_monitoring.js file, you can see the base data values for the existing temperature, humidity, and external temperature telemetry. Add a new base data value for **rpm** as follows:

    ```
    // Sensors data
    var temperature = 50;
    var humidity = 50;
    var externalTemperature = 55;
    var rpm = 200;
    ```

3. The Node.js simulated device generates telemetry by adding a random increment to the base data values using the **generateRandomIncrement** function in the remote_monitoring.js file. Randomize the **rpm** value by adding a line of code after the existing randomizations as follows:

    ```
    temperature += generateRandomIncrement();
    externalTemperature += generateRandomIncrement();
    humidity += generateRandomIncrement();
    rpm += generateRandomIncrement();
    ```

4. Add the new rpm value to the JSON payload the device sends to IoT Hub:

    ```
    var data = JSON.stringify({
      'DeviceID': deviceId,
      'Temperature': temperature,
      'Humidity': humidity,
      'ExternalTemperature': externalTemperature,
      'RPM': rpm
    });
    ```

5. Run the Node.js simulated device using the following command:

    ```
    node remote_monitoring.js
    ```

6. Observe the new RPM telemetry type that displays on the chart in the dashboard:

![Add RPM to the dashboard][image3]

> [AZURE.NOTE] You may need to disable and then enable the Node.js device on the **Devices** page in the dashboard to see the change immediately.

## Customize the dashboard display

The **Device-Info** message can include metadata about the telemetry the device can send to IoT Hub. This metadata can specify the telemetry types the device sends. Modify the **deviceMetaData** value in the remote_monitoring.js file to include a **Telemetry** definition following the **Commands** definition as shown in the following code snippet (be sure to add a `,` after the **Commands** definition):

```
'Commands': [{
  'Name': 'SetTemperature',
  'Parameters': [{
    'Name': 'Temperature',
    'Type': 'double'
  }]
},
{
  'Name': 'SetHumidity',
  'Parameters': [{
    'Name': 'Humidity',
    'Type': 'double'
  }]
}],
'Telemetry': [{
  'Name': 'Temperature',
  'Type': 'double'
},
{
  'Name': 'Humidity',
  'Type': 'double'
},
{
  'Name': 'ExternalTemperature',
  'Type': 'double'
}]
```

> [AZURE.NOTE] The remote monitoring solution uses a case insensitive match to compare the metadata definition with data in the telemetry stream.

Adding a **Telemetry** definition as above to the sample, does not change the behavior of the dashboard. However, the metadata can also include a **DisplayName** attribute to customize the display in the dashboard. Update the **Telemetry** metadata definition as follows:

```
'Telemetry': [
{
  'Name': 'Temperature',
  'Type': 'double',
  'DisplayName': 'Temperature (C*)'
},
{
  'Name': 'Humidity',
  'Type': 'double',
  'DisplayName': 'Humidity (relative)'
},
{
  'Name': 'ExternalTemperature',
  'Type': 'double',
  'DisplayName': 'Outdoor Temperature (C*)'
}
]
```

The following screenshot shows how this change modifies the chart legend on the dashboard:

![Customize the chart legend][image4]

> [AZURE.NOTE] You may need to disable and then enable the Node.js device on the **Devices** page in the dashboard to see the change immediately.

## Filter the telemetry types

By default, the chart on the dashboard shows every data series in the telemetry stream. You can use the **Device-Info** metadata to suppress the display of specific telemetry types on the chart. 

To make the chart show only Temperature and Humidity telemetry, omit **ExternalTemperature** from the **Device-Info** **Telemetry** metadata as follows:

```
'Telemetry': [
{
  'Name': 'Temperature',
  'Type': 'double',
  'DisplayName': 'Temperature (C*)'
},
{
  'Name': 'Humidity',
  'Type': 'double',
  'DisplayName': 'Humidity (relative)'
},
//{
//  'Name': 'ExternalTemperature',
//  'Type': 'double',
//  'DisplayName': 'Outdoor Temperature (C*)'
//}
]
```

The **Outdoor Temperature** no longer displays on the chart:

![Filter the telemetry on the dashboard][image5]

Note that this only affects the chart display, the data **ExternalTemperature** values are still stored and made available for any backend processing.

> [AZURE.NOTE] You may need to disable and then enable the Node.js device on the **Devices** page in the dashboard to see the change immediately.

## Handle errors

For a data stream to display on the chart, its **Type** in the **Device-Info** metadata must match the data type of the telemetry values. For example, if the metadata specifies that the **Type** of humidity data is **int** and a **double** is found in the telemetry stream then the humidity telemetry does not display on the chart. However, the **Humidity** values are still stored and made available for any backend processing.

## Next steps

Now that you've seen how to make use of dynamic telemetry, you can learn more about how the preconfigured solutions make use of device information: [Device information metadata in the remote monitoring preconfigured solution][lnk-devinfo].

[lnk-devinfo]: iot-suite-remote-monitoring-device-info.md

[image1]: media/iot-suite-dynamic-telemetry/image1.png
[image2]: media/iot-suite-dynamic-telemetry/image2.png
[image3]: media/iot-suite-dynamic-telemetry/image3.png
[image4]: media/iot-suite-dynamic-telemetry/image4.png
[image5]: media/iot-suite-dynamic-telemetry/image5.png

[lnk_free_trial]: http://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/
[lnk-node]: http://nodejs.org
[node-linux]: https://github.com/nodejs/node-v0.x-archive/wiki/Installing-Node.js-via-package-manager
[lnk-github-repo]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdks
