articles/iot-suite/iot-suite-permissions.md, before:

<properties
  pageTitle="Azure IoT Suite and Azure Active Directory | Microsoft Azure"
  description="Describes how Azure IoT Suite uses Azure Active Directory to manage permissions."
  services=""
  suite="iot-suite"
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="aguilaaj"
  manager="timlt"
  editor=""/>

<tags
  ms.service="iot-suite"
  ms.devlang="na"
  ms.topic="get-started-article"
  ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
  ms.workload="na"
  ms.date="05/16/2016"
  ms.author="araguila"/>
  
# Permissions on the azureiotsuite.com site

## What happens when you sign in

When you first sign in at [azureiotsuite.com][lnk-azureiotsuite], the site determines the permission levels you have based on the currently selected Azure Active Directory (AAD) tenant and Azure subscription.

1.  The site first finds out from Azure which AAD tenants you belong to in order to populate the list of tenants seen next to your logged in username. At this time, the site can only obtain user tokens for one tenant at a time. As a result, when you switch to a different tenant using the dropdown in the top right corner, the site re-logs you in to that tenant to obtain the tokens for that tenant.

2.  Next, the site finds out from Azure which subscriptions you have associated with the selected tenant. You see the available subscriptions when you create a new preconfigured solution.

3.  Finally, the site retrieves all the resources in the subscriptions and resource groups tagged as preconfigured solutions and populates the tiles on the home page.

The following sections describe the roles that control access to the preconfigured solutions.

## AAD roles

The AAD roles control the ability provision preconfigured solutions and manage users in a preconfigured solution.

You can find more information about administrator roles in AAD in [Assigning administrator roles in Azure AD][lnk-aad-admin], but this article focuses primarily on the **Global Administrator** and the **Domain User/Member** roles as used by the preconfigured solutions.

**Global Administrator:** There can be many global administrators per AAD tenant. When you create an AAD tenant, you are by default the global administrator of that tenant. The global administrator can provision a preconfigured solution and is assigned an **ADMINISTRATOR** role for the application inside of their AAD tenant. However, if another user in the same AAD tenant creates an application, the default role the global administrator is granted is **IMPLICIT READ ONLY**. Global administrators can assign roles for applications using the [Azure classic portal][lnk-classic-portal].

**Domain User/Member:** There can be many domain users/members per AAD tenant. A domain user can provision a preconfigured solution through the [azureiotsuite.com][lnk-azureiotsuite] site. The default role they are granted  for the application they provision is **ADMINISTRATOR**. They can create an application using the build.cmd script in the [azure-iot-remote-monitoring][lnk-rm-github-repo] or [azure-iot-predictive-maintenance][lnk-pm-github-repo] repository, but the default role they are granted is **IMPLICIT READONLY**, as they do not have permission to assign roles. If another user in the AAD tenant creates an application, they are assigned the **IMPLICIT READONLY** role by default for that application. They do not have the ability to assign roles for applications; therefore cannot add users or roles for users for an application even if they provisioned it.

**Guest User/Guest:** There can be many guest users/guests per AAD tenant. Guest users have a limited set of rights in the AAD tenant. As a result, guest users cannot provision a preconfigured solution in the AAD tenant.

For more information, see the following resources:

- [Create or Edit users in Azure AD][lnk-create-edit-users]
- [Assign App roles in AAD][lnk-assign-app-roles]

## Azure subscription administrator roles

The Azure admin roles control the ability to map an Azure subscription to an AD tenant.

You can find out more about the Azure Co-Administrator, Service Administrator and Account Administrator roles in the article [How to add or change Azure Co-Administrator, Service Administrator and Account Administrator][lnk-admin-roles].

## Application roles

The application roles control access to devices in your preconfigured solution.

There are two defined and one implicit role defined in the application that is created when you provision a preconfigured solution.

-   **ADMINISTRATOR:** Has full control to add, manage, and remove devices

-   **READ ONLY:** Has ability to view devices

-   **IMPLICIT READ ONLY:** This is the same as Read Only, but is granted to all users of your AAD tenant. This was done for convenience during development. You can remove this role by modifying the [RolePermissions.cs][lnk-resource-cs] source file.

### Changing application roles for a user

You can use the following procedure to make a user in your Active Directory an administrator of your preconfigured solution.

You must be an AAD global administrator to change roles for a user:

1. Go to the [Azure classic portal][lnk-classic-portal].

2. Select **Active Directory**.

3. Click the name of your AAD tenant (this is the directory you chose on azureiotsuite.com when you provisioned your solution).

4. Click **Applications**.

5. Click the name of the application that matches your preconfigured solution name. If you don't see your application in the list, switch the **Show** drop down to **Applications my company owns** and click the check mark.

7. Click **Users**.

8. Select the user you want to switch roles.

9. Click **Assign** and select the role (such as **Admin**) you'd like to assign to the user, click the check mark.

## FAQ

### I'm a service administrator and I'd like to change the directory mapping between my subscription and a specific AAD tenant. How do I do this?

1. Go to the [Azure classic portal][lnk-classic-portal], click **Settings** in the list of services on the left-hand side.

2. Select the subscription you'd like to change the directory mapping to.

3. Click **Edit Directory**.

4. Select the **Directory** you would like to use in the dropdown. Click the forward arrow.

5. Confirm the directory mapping and affected co-administrators. Note that if you are moving from another directory, all the co-administrators from the original directory are removed.

### I'm a domain user/member on the AAD tenant and I've created a preconfigured solution. How do I get assigned a role for my application?

Ask a global administrator to assign you as a global administrator on the AAD tenant to get permissions to assign roles to users yourself, or ask a global administrator to assign you a role. If you'd like to change the AAD tenant your preconfigured solution has been deployed to, see the next question.

### How do I switch the AAD tenant my remote monitoring preconfigured solution and application are assigned to?

You can run a cloud deployment from <https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-remote-monitoring> and redeploy with a newly created AAD tenant. Since you are by default a global administrator when you create a new AAD tenant, you will have access for adding users and assigning roles to those users.

1. Create a new AAD directory in the [Azure Management portal][lnk-classic-portal].

2. Go to <https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-remote-monitoring>.

3. Run `build.cmd cloud [debug | release] {name of previously deployed remote monitoring solution}` (For example, `build.cmd cloud debug myRMSolution`)

4. When prompted, set the **tenantid** to be your newly created tenant instead of your previous tenant.


### I want to change a Service Administrator or Co-Administrator when logged in with an organisational account

See the support article [Changing Service Administrator and Co-Administrator when logged in with an organisational account][lnk-service-admins].

### Why am I seeing this error? "Your account does not have the proper permissions to create a solution. Please check with your account administrator or try with a different account."

Take a look at the diagram below:

![][img-flowchart]

> [AZURE.NOTE] If you continue to see the error after validating you are a global administrator on the AAD tenant and a co-administrator on the subscription, have your account administrator remove the user and re-assign necessary permissions in this order: add the user as a global administrator and then add user as a co-administrator on the Azure subscription. If issues persist, please contact [Help & Support][lnk-help-support].

**Why am I seeing this error when I have an Azure subscription?** *An Azure subscription is required to create pre-configured solutions. You can create a free trial account in just a couple of minutes.*

If you're certain you have an Azure subscription, validate the tenant mapping for your subscription and ensure the correct tenant is selected in the dropdown. If you’ve validated the desired tenant is correct, follow the diagram above and validate the mapping of your subscription and this AAD tenant.

## Next steps

Next, you can learn how to [customize a preconfigured solution][lnk-customize].

[img-flowchart]: media/iot-suite-permissions/flowchart.png

[lnk-azureiotsuite]: https://www.azureiotsuite.com/
[lnk-rm-github-repo]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-remote-monitoring
[lnk-pm-github-repo]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-predictive-maintenance
[lnk-aad-admin]: https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/active-directory-assign-admin-roles/
[lnk-classic-portal]: https://manage.windowsazure.com/
[lnk-create-edit-users]: https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/active-directory-create-users/
[lnk-assign-app-roles]: https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/active-directory-application-manifest/
[lnk-service-admins]: https://azure.microsoft.com/support/changing-service-admin-and-co-admin/
[lnk-admin-roles]: https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/billing-add-change-azure-subscription-administrator/
[lnk-resource-cs]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-remote-monitoring/blob/master/DeviceAdministration/Web/Security/RolePermissions.cs
[lnk-help-support]: https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade
[lnk-customize]: iot-suite-guidance-on-customizing-preconfigured-solutions.md

Commit message:

Update Next steps for customizing and predictive maintenance

articles/iot-suite/iot-suite-permissions.md, after:

<properties
  pageTitle="Azure IoT Suite and Azure Active Directory | Microsoft Azure"
  description="Describes how Azure IoT Suite uses Azure Active Directory to manage permissions."
  services=""
  suite="iot-suite"
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="aguilaaj"
  manager="timlt"
  editor=""/>

<tags
  ms.service="iot-suite"
  ms.devlang="na"
  ms.topic="get-started-article"
  ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
  ms.workload="na"
  ms.date="05/16/2016"
  ms.author="araguila"/>
  
# Permissions on the azureiotsuite.com site

## What happens when you sign in

When you first sign in at [azureiotsuite.com][lnk-azureiotsuite], the site determines the permission levels you have based on the currently selected Azure Active Directory (AAD) tenant and Azure subscription.

1.  The site first finds out from Azure which AAD tenants you belong to in order to populate the list of tenants seen next to your logged in username. At this time, the site can only obtain user tokens for one tenant at a time. As a result, when you switch to a different tenant using the dropdown in the top right corner, the site re-logs you in to that tenant to obtain the tokens for that tenant.

2.  Next, the site finds out from Azure which subscriptions you have associated with the selected tenant. You see the available subscriptions when you create a new preconfigured solution.

3.  Finally, the site retrieves all the resources in the subscriptions and resource groups tagged as preconfigured solutions and populates the tiles on the home page.

The following sections describe the roles that control access to the preconfigured solutions.

## AAD roles

The AAD roles control the ability provision preconfigured solutions and manage users in a preconfigured solution.

You can find more information about administrator roles in AAD in [Assigning administrator roles in Azure AD][lnk-aad-admin], but this article focuses primarily on the **Global Administrator** and the **Domain User/Member** roles as used by the preconfigured solutions.

**Global Administrator:** There can be many global administrators per AAD tenant. When you create an AAD tenant, you are by default the global administrator of that tenant. The global administrator can provision a preconfigured solution and is assigned an **ADMINISTRATOR** role for the application inside of their AAD tenant. However, if another user in the same AAD tenant creates an application, the default role the global administrator is granted is **IMPLICIT READ ONLY**. Global administrators can assign roles for applications using the [Azure classic portal][lnk-classic-portal].

**Domain User/Member:** There can be many domain users/members per AAD tenant. A domain user can provision a preconfigured solution through the [azureiotsuite.com][lnk-azureiotsuite] site. The default role they are granted  for the application they provision is **ADMINISTRATOR**. They can create an application using the build.cmd script in the [azure-iot-remote-monitoring][lnk-rm-github-repo] or [azure-iot-predictive-maintenance][lnk-pm-github-repo] repository, but the default role they are granted is **IMPLICIT READONLY**, as they do not have permission to assign roles. If another user in the AAD tenant creates an application, they are assigned the **IMPLICIT READONLY** role by default for that application. They do not have the ability to assign roles for applications; therefore cannot add users or roles for users for an application even if they provisioned it.

**Guest User/Guest:** There can be many guest users/guests per AAD tenant. Guest users have a limited set of rights in the AAD tenant. As a result, guest users cannot provision a preconfigured solution in the AAD tenant.

For more information, see the following resources:

- [Create or Edit users in Azure AD][lnk-create-edit-users]
- [Assign App roles in AAD][lnk-assign-app-roles]

## Azure subscription administrator roles

The Azure admin roles control the ability to map an Azure subscription to an AD tenant.

You can find out more about the Azure Co-Administrator, Service Administrator and Account Administrator roles in the article [How to add or change Azure Co-Administrator, Service Administrator and Account Administrator][lnk-admin-roles].

## Application roles

The application roles control access to devices in your preconfigured solution.

There are two defined and one implicit role defined in the application that is created when you provision a preconfigured solution.

-   **ADMINISTRATOR:** Has full control to add, manage, and remove devices

-   **READ ONLY:** Has ability to view devices

-   **IMPLICIT READ ONLY:** This is the same as Read Only, but is granted to all users of your AAD tenant. This was done for convenience during development. You can remove this role by modifying the [RolePermissions.cs][lnk-resource-cs] source file.

### Changing application roles for a user

You can use the following procedure to make a user in your Active Directory an administrator of your preconfigured solution.

You must be an AAD global administrator to change roles for a user:

1. Go to the [Azure classic portal][lnk-classic-portal].

2. Select **Active Directory**.

3. Click the name of your AAD tenant (this is the directory you chose on azureiotsuite.com when you provisioned your solution).

4. Click **Applications**.

5. Click the name of the application that matches your preconfigured solution name. If you don't see your application in the list, switch the **Show** drop down to **Applications my company owns** and click the check mark.

7. Click **Users**.

8. Select the user you want to switch roles.

9. Click **Assign** and select the role (such as **Admin**) you'd like to assign to the user, click the check mark.

## FAQ

### I'm a service administrator and I'd like to change the directory mapping between my subscription and a specific AAD tenant. How do I do this?

1. Go to the [Azure classic portal][lnk-classic-portal], click **Settings** in the list of services on the left-hand side.

2. Select the subscription you'd like to change the directory mapping to.

3. Click **Edit Directory**.

4. Select the **Directory** you would like to use in the dropdown. Click the forward arrow.

5. Confirm the directory mapping and affected co-administrators. Note that if you are moving from another directory, all the co-administrators from the original directory are removed.

### I'm a domain user/member on the AAD tenant and I've created a preconfigured solution. How do I get assigned a role for my application?

Ask a global administrator to assign you as a global administrator on the AAD tenant to get permissions to assign roles to users yourself, or ask a global administrator to assign you a role. If you'd like to change the AAD tenant your preconfigured solution has been deployed to, see the next question.

### How do I switch the AAD tenant my remote monitoring preconfigured solution and application are assigned to?

You can run a cloud deployment from <https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-remote-monitoring> and redeploy with a newly created AAD tenant. Since you are by default a global administrator when you create a new AAD tenant, you will have access for adding users and assigning roles to those users.

1. Create a new AAD directory in the [Azure Management portal][lnk-classic-portal].

2. Go to <https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-remote-monitoring>.

3. Run `build.cmd cloud [debug | release] {name of previously deployed remote monitoring solution}` (For example, `build.cmd cloud debug myRMSolution`)

4. When prompted, set the **tenantid** to be your newly created tenant instead of your previous tenant.


### I want to change a Service Administrator or Co-Administrator when logged in with an organisational account

See the support article [Changing Service Administrator and Co-Administrator when logged in with an organisational account][lnk-service-admins].

### Why am I seeing this error? "Your account does not have the proper permissions to create a solution. Please check with your account administrator or try with a different account."

Take a look at the diagram below:

![][img-flowchart]

> [AZURE.NOTE] If you continue to see the error after validating you are a global administrator on the AAD tenant and a co-administrator on the subscription, have your account administrator remove the user and re-assign necessary permissions in this order: add the user as a global administrator and then add user as a co-administrator on the Azure subscription. If issues persist, please contact [Help & Support][lnk-help-support].

**Why am I seeing this error when I have an Azure subscription?** *An Azure subscription is required to create pre-configured solutions. You can create a free trial account in just a couple of minutes.*

If you're certain you have an Azure subscription, validate the tenant mapping for your subscription and ensure the correct tenant is selected in the dropdown. If you’ve validated the desired tenant is correct, follow the diagram above and validate the mapping of your subscription and this AAD tenant.

## Next steps

To continue learning about IoT Suite, see how you can [customize a preconfigured solution][lnk-customize].

[img-flowchart]: media/iot-suite-permissions/flowchart.png

[lnk-azureiotsuite]: https://www.azureiotsuite.com/
[lnk-rm-github-repo]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-remote-monitoring
[lnk-pm-github-repo]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-predictive-maintenance
[lnk-aad-admin]: https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/active-directory-assign-admin-roles/
[lnk-classic-portal]: https://manage.windowsazure.com/
[lnk-create-edit-users]: https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/active-directory-create-users/
[lnk-assign-app-roles]: https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/active-directory-application-manifest/
[lnk-service-admins]: https://azure.microsoft.com/support/changing-service-admin-and-co-admin/
[lnk-admin-roles]: https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/billing-add-change-azure-subscription-administrator/
[lnk-resource-cs]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-remote-monitoring/blob/master/DeviceAdministration/Web/Security/RolePermissions.cs
[lnk-help-support]: https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade
[lnk-customize]: iot-suite-guidance-on-customizing-preconfigured-solutions.md
