articles/active-directory-domain-services/active-directory-domain-services-getting-started.md, before:

<properties
	pageTitle="Azure Active Directory Domain Services preview: Getting Started | Microsoft Azure"
	description="Getting started with Azure Active Directory Domain Services"
	services="active-directory-domain-services"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="mahesh-unnikrishnan"
	manager="udayh"
	editor="femila"/>

<tags
	ms.service="active-directory-domain-services"
	ms.workload="identity"
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
	ms.devlang="na"
	ms.topic="article"
	ms.date="09/29/2015"
	ms.author="mahesh-unnikrishnan"/>

# Azure AD Domain Services *(Preview)* - Getting started

This article walks through the configuration steps required to enable Azure AD Domain Services for your Azure AD tenant.

## Step 1: Create the 'AAD DC Administrators' group
The first step is to create an administrative group in your Azure Active Directory tenant. This special administrative group is called **AAD DC Administrators**. Members of this group will be granted administrative privileges on machines that are domain joined to the Azure AD Domain Services domain you will set up. After domain join, this group will be added to the ‘Administrators’ group on these domain joined machines. Additionally, members of this group will also be able to use Remote Desktop to connect remotely to domain joined machines.  

> [AZURE.NOTE] You will not be able to wield Domain Administrator or Enterprise Administrator privileges within the domain created using Azure AD Domain Services. Since this is a managed domain, these privileges are reserved by the service and are not made available to users within the tenant. However, you will be able to use this special administrator group created in this configuration step in order to perform some privileged operations such as joining machines to the domain, belonging to the Administrators group on domain-joined machines, configuring Group Policy etc.

In this configuration step you will create the group and add one or more users in your tenant to the group. Perform the following steps in order to create the administrative group for Azure AD Domain Services:

1. Navigate to the **Azure management portal** (i.e. [https://manage.windowsazure.com](https://manage.windowsazure.com))
2. Select the **Active Directory** node on the left pane.
3. Select the Azure AD tenant (directory) for which you would like to enable Azure AD Domain Services. Note that you can only create one domain for each Azure AD directory.
4. Click on the **Groups** tab.
5. Click on **Add Group** from the task pane at the bottom of the page, in order to add a group to your directory.
6. Create a group named **AAD DC Administrators**.

    > [AZURE.WARNING] You must create a group with this exact name in order to enable access within Azure AD Domain Services.

7. You can add a description for this group that enables other users within your Azure AD tenant to understand that this group will be used to grant administrative privileges within Azure AD Domain Services.
8. After the group has been created, click on the group in order to add users as members of this group.
9. In the **Add members** dialog, select the users who should be members of this group and select the checkbox when you are done.

Commit message:

Updated images for the create administrators group article.

articles/active-directory-domain-services/active-directory-domain-services-getting-started.md, after:

<properties
	pageTitle="Azure Active Directory Domain Services preview: Getting Started | Microsoft Azure"
	description="Getting started with Azure Active Directory Domain Services"
	services="active-directory-domain-services"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="mahesh-unnikrishnan"
	manager="udayh"
	editor="femila"/>

<tags
	ms.service="active-directory-domain-services"
	ms.workload="identity"
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
	ms.devlang="na"
	ms.topic="article"
	ms.date="09/29/2015"
	ms.author="mahesh-unnikrishnan"/>

# Azure AD Domain Services *(Preview)* - Getting started

This article walks through the configuration steps required to enable Azure AD Domain Services for your Azure AD tenant.

## Step 1: Create the 'AAD DC Administrators' group
The first step is to create an administrative group in your Azure Active Directory tenant. This special administrative group is called **AAD DC Administrators**. Members of this group will be granted administrative privileges on machines that are domain joined to the Azure AD Domain Services domain you will set up. After domain join, this group will be added to the ‘Administrators’ group on these domain joined machines. Additionally, members of this group will also be able to use Remote Desktop to connect remotely to domain joined machines.  

> [AZURE.NOTE] You will not be able to wield Domain Administrator or Enterprise Administrator privileges within the domain created using Azure AD Domain Services. Since this is a managed domain, these privileges are reserved by the service and are not made available to users within the tenant. However, you will be able to use this special administrator group created in this configuration step in order to perform some privileged operations such as joining machines to the domain, belonging to the Administrators group on domain-joined machines, configuring Group Policy etc.

In this configuration step you will create the group and add one or more users in your tenant to the group. Perform the following steps in order to create the administrative group for Azure AD Domain Services:

1. Navigate to the **Azure management portal** (i.e. [https://manage.windowsazure.com](https://manage.windowsazure.com))
2. Select the **Active Directory** node on the left pane.
3. Select the Azure AD tenant (directory) for which you would like to enable Azure AD Domain Services. Note that you can only create one domain for each Azure AD directory.

    ![Select AAD Directory](./media/active-directory-domain-services-getting-started/select-aad-directory.png)

4. Click on the **Groups** tab.
5. Click on **Add Group** from the task pane at the bottom of the page, in order to add a group to your directory.
6. Create a group named **AAD DC Administrators**.

    > [AZURE.WARNING] You must create a group with this exact name in order to enable access within Azure AD Domain Services.

	![Create administrator group](./media/active-directory-domain-services-getting-started/create-admin-group.png)

7. You can add a description for this group that enables other users within your Azure AD tenant to understand that this group will be used to grant administrative privileges within Azure AD Domain Services.
8. After the group has been created, click on the name of the group to see the properties of this group. Click on the **Add members** button on the bottom panel, in order to add users as members of this group.
9. In the **Add members** dialog, select the users who should be members of this group and select the checkbox when you are done.

    ![Add users to administrator group](./media/active-directory-domain-services-getting-started/add-group-members.png)
