articles/batch/batch-powershell-cmdlets-get-started.md, before:

﻿<properties
   pageTitle="Get started with Azure Batch PowerShell cmdlets | Microsoft Azure"
   description="Introduces the Azure PowerShell cmdlets used to manage the Azure Batch service"
   services="batch"
   documentationCenter=""
   authors="dlepow"
   manager="timlt"
   editor=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="batch"
   ms.devlang="NA"
   ms.topic="get-started-article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="powershell"
   ms.workload="big-compute"
   ms.date="08/07/2015"
   ms.author="danlep"/>

# Get started with Azure Batch PowerShell cmdlets
This article is a quick introduction to the Azure PowerShell cmdlets you can use to manage your Batch accounts and get information about your Batch jobs, tasks, and other details.

For detailed cmdlet syntax, type `get-help <Cmdlet_name>` or see the [Azure Batch cmdlet reference](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/azure/mt125957.aspx).

## Prerequisites

* **Azure PowerShell** - See [How to install and configure Azure PowerShell](../powershell-install-configure.md) for prerequisites and download and installation instructions. Batch cmdlets were introduced in version 0.8.10 and later versions. The Batch cmdlets were updated to use the general availability API in version 0.9.6.

## Use the Batch cmdlets

Use standard procedures to start Azure PowerShell and [connect to your Azure subscriptions](../powershell-install-configure.md#Connect). Additionally:

* **Select Azure subscription** - If you have more than subscription, select a subscription:

    ```
    Select-AzureSubscription -SubscriptionName <SubscriptionName>
    ```

* **Switch to AzureResourceManage mode** - The Batch cmdlets ship in the Azure Resource Manager module. See [Using Windows PowerShell with Resource Manager](../powershell-azure-resource-manager.md) for details. To use this module, run the [Switch-AzureMode](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dn722470.aspx) cmdlet:

    ```
    Switch-AzureMode -Name AzureResourceManager
    ```

## Manage Batch accounts and keys

You can use Azure PowerShell cmdlets to create and manage Batch accounts and keys.

### Create a Batch account

**New-AzureBatchAccount** creates a new Batch account in a specified resource group. If you do not already have a resource group, create one by running the [New-AzureResourceGroup](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dn654594.aspx) cmdlet, specifying one of the Azure regions in the **Location** parameter. (You can find available regions for different Azure resources by running [Get-AzureLocation](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dn654582.aspx).) For example:

```
New-AzureResourceGroup –Name MyBatchResourceGroup –location "Central US"
```

Then, create a new Batch account account in the resource group, also specifying an account name for <*account_name*> and a location where the Batch service is available. Creating the account can take several minutes to complete. For example:

```
New-AzureBatchAccount –AccountName <account_name> –Location "Central US" –ResourceGroupName MyBatchResourceGroup
```

> [AZURE.NOTE] The Batch account name must be unique to Azure, contain between 3 and 24 characters, and use lowercase letters and numbers only.

### Get account access keys
**Get-AzureBatchAccountKeys** shows the access keys associated with an Azure Batch account. For example, run the following to get the primary and secondary keys of the account you created.

```
$Account = Get-AzureBatchAccountKeys –AccountName <accountname>
$Account.PrimaryAccountKey
$Account.SecondaryAccountKey
```

### Generate a new access key
**New-AzureBatchAccountKey** generates a new primary or secondary account key for an Azure Batch account. For example, to generate a new primary key for your Batch account, type:

```
New-AzureBatchAccountKey -AccountName <account_name> -KeyType Primary
```

> [AZURE.NOTE] To generate a new secondary key, specify "Secondary" for the **KeyType** parameter. You have to regenerate the primary and secondary keys separately.

### Delete a Batch account
**Remove-AzureBatchAccount** deletes a Batch account. For example:

```
Remove-AzureBatchAccount -AccountName <account_name>
```

When prompted, confirm you want to remove the account. Account removal can take some time to complete.

## Query for jobs, tasks, and other details

Use cmdlets such as **Get-AzureBatchJob**, **Get-AzureBatchTask**, and **Get-AzureBatchPool** to query for entities created under a Batch account.

To use these cmdlets, you first need to create an AzureBatchContext object to store your account name and keys:

```
$context = Get-AzureBatchAccountKeys "<account_name>"
```

You pass this context into cmdlets that interact with the Batch service by using the **BatchContext** parameter.

> [AZURE.NOTE] By default, the account's primary key is used for authentication, but you can explicitly select the key to use by changing your BatchAccountContext object’s **KeyInUse** property: `$context.KeyInUse = "Secondary"`.


### Query for data

As an example, use **Get-AzureBatchPools** to find your pools. By default this queries for all pools under your account, assuming you already stored the BatchAccountContext object in *$context*:

```
Get-AzureBatchPool -BatchContext $context
```
### Use an OData filter

You can supply an OData filter using the **Filter** parameter to find only the objects you’re interested in. For example, you can find all pools with ids starting with “myPool”:

```
$filter = "startswith(id,'myPool')"
Get-AzureBatchPool -Filter $filter -BatchContext $context
```

This method is not as flexible as using “Where-Object” in a local pipeline. However, the query gets sent to the Batch service directly so that all filtering happens on the server side, saving Internet bandwidth.

### Use the Id parameter

An alternative to an OData filter is to use the **Id** parameter. To query for a specific pool with id "myPool":

```
Get-AzureBatchPool -Id "myPool" -BatchContext $context

```
The **Id** parameter supports only full-id search, not wildcards or OData-style filters.

### Use the pipleline

Batch cmdlets can leverage the PowerShell pipeline to send data between cmdlets. This has the same effect as specifying a parameter but makes listing multiple entities easier. For example, you can find all tasks under your account:

```
Get-AzureBatchJob -BatchContext $context | Get-AzureBatchTask -BatchContext $context
```

### Use the MaxCount parameter

By default, each cmdlet returns a maximum of 1000 objects. If you reach this limit, you can either refine your filter to bring back fewer objects, or explicitly set a maximum using the **MaxCount** parameter. For example:

```
Get-AzureBatchTask -MaxCount 2500 -BatchContext $context

```

To remove the upper bound, set **MaxCount** to 0 or less.

## Related topics
* [Batch technical overview](batch-technical-overview.md)
* [Download Azure PowerShell](http://go.microsoft.com/p/?linkid=9811175)
* [Azure Batch cmdlet reference](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/azure/mt125957.aspx)
* [Efficient List Queries](batch-efficient-list-queries.md)

Commit message:

Update Batch PowerShell doc to include registration

articles/batch/batch-powershell-cmdlets-get-started.md, after:

﻿<properties
   pageTitle="Get started with Azure Batch PowerShell cmdlets | Microsoft Azure"
   description="Introduces the Azure PowerShell cmdlets used to manage the Azure Batch service"
   services="batch"
   documentationCenter=""
   authors="dlepow"
   manager="timlt"
   editor=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="batch"
   ms.devlang="NA"
   ms.topic="get-started-article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="powershell"
   ms.workload="big-compute"
   ms.date="08/07/2015"
   ms.author="danlep"/>

# Get started with Azure Batch PowerShell cmdlets
This article is a quick introduction to the Azure PowerShell cmdlets you can use to manage your Batch accounts and get information about your Batch jobs, tasks, and other details.

For detailed cmdlet syntax, type `get-help <Cmdlet_name>` or see the [Azure Batch cmdlet reference](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/azure/mt125957.aspx).

## Prerequisites

* **Azure PowerShell** - See [How to install and configure Azure PowerShell](../powershell-install-configure.md) for prerequisites and download and installation instructions. Batch cmdlets were introduced in version 0.8.10 and later versions. The Batch cmdlets were updated to use the general availability API in version 0.9.6.

## Use the Batch cmdlets

Use standard procedures to start Azure PowerShell and [connect to your Azure subscriptions](../powershell-install-configure.md#Connect). Additionally:

* **Select Azure subscription** - If you have more than subscription, select a subscription:

    ```
    Select-AzureSubscription -SubscriptionName <SubscriptionName>
    ```

* **Switch to AzureResourceManage mode** - The Batch cmdlets ship in the Azure Resource Manager module. See [Using Windows PowerShell with Resource Manager](../powershell-azure-resource-manager.md) for details. To use this module, run the [Switch-AzureMode](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dn722470.aspx) cmdlet:

    ```
    Switch-AzureMode -Name AzureResourceManager
    ```

* **Register with the Batch provider namespace (one-time operation)** - Before you can manage your Batch accounts, you must register with the Batch provider namespace. This operation only needs to be performed once per subscription.

    ```
    Register-AzureProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Batch
    ```

## Manage Batch accounts and keys

You can use Azure PowerShell cmdlets to create and manage Batch accounts and keys.

### Create a Batch account

**New-AzureBatchAccount** creates a new Batch account in a specified resource group. If you do not already have a resource group, create one by running the [New-AzureResourceGroup](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dn654594.aspx) cmdlet, specifying one of the Azure regions in the **Location** parameter. (You can find available regions for different Azure resources by running [Get-AzureLocation](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dn654582.aspx).) For example:

```
New-AzureResourceGroup –Name MyBatchResourceGroup –location "Central US"
```

Then, create a new Batch account account in the resource group, also specifying an account name for <*account_name*> and a location where the Batch service is available. Creating the account can take several minutes to complete. For example:

```
New-AzureBatchAccount –AccountName <account_name> –Location "Central US" –ResourceGroupName MyBatchResourceGroup
```

> [AZURE.NOTE] The Batch account name must be unique to Azure, contain between 3 and 24 characters, and use lowercase letters and numbers only.

### Get account access keys
**Get-AzureBatchAccountKeys** shows the access keys associated with an Azure Batch account. For example, run the following to get the primary and secondary keys of the account you created.

```
$Account = Get-AzureBatchAccountKeys –AccountName <accountname>
$Account.PrimaryAccountKey
$Account.SecondaryAccountKey
```

### Generate a new access key
**New-AzureBatchAccountKey** generates a new primary or secondary account key for an Azure Batch account. For example, to generate a new primary key for your Batch account, type:

```
New-AzureBatchAccountKey -AccountName <account_name> -KeyType Primary
```

> [AZURE.NOTE] To generate a new secondary key, specify "Secondary" for the **KeyType** parameter. You have to regenerate the primary and secondary keys separately.

### Delete a Batch account
**Remove-AzureBatchAccount** deletes a Batch account. For example:

```
Remove-AzureBatchAccount -AccountName <account_name>
```

When prompted, confirm you want to remove the account. Account removal can take some time to complete.

## Query for jobs, tasks, and other details

Use cmdlets such as **Get-AzureBatchJob**, **Get-AzureBatchTask**, and **Get-AzureBatchPool** to query for entities created under a Batch account.

To use these cmdlets, you first need to create an AzureBatchContext object to store your account name and keys:

```
$context = Get-AzureBatchAccountKeys "<account_name>"
```

You pass this context into cmdlets that interact with the Batch service by using the **BatchContext** parameter.

> [AZURE.NOTE] By default, the account's primary key is used for authentication, but you can explicitly select the key to use by changing your BatchAccountContext object’s **KeyInUse** property: `$context.KeyInUse = "Secondary"`.


### Query for data

As an example, use **Get-AzureBatchPools** to find your pools. By default this queries for all pools under your account, assuming you already stored the BatchAccountContext object in *$context*:

```
Get-AzureBatchPool -BatchContext $context
```
### Use an OData filter

You can supply an OData filter using the **Filter** parameter to find only the objects you’re interested in. For example, you can find all pools with ids starting with “myPool”:

```
$filter = "startswith(id,'myPool')"
Get-AzureBatchPool -Filter $filter -BatchContext $context
```

This method is not as flexible as using “Where-Object” in a local pipeline. However, the query gets sent to the Batch service directly so that all filtering happens on the server side, saving Internet bandwidth.

### Use the Id parameter

An alternative to an OData filter is to use the **Id** parameter. To query for a specific pool with id "myPool":

```
Get-AzureBatchPool -Id "myPool" -BatchContext $context

```
The **Id** parameter supports only full-id search, not wildcards or OData-style filters.

### Use the pipleline

Batch cmdlets can leverage the PowerShell pipeline to send data between cmdlets. This has the same effect as specifying a parameter but makes listing multiple entities easier. For example, you can find all tasks under your account:

```
Get-AzureBatchJob -BatchContext $context | Get-AzureBatchTask -BatchContext $context
```

### Use the MaxCount parameter

By default, each cmdlet returns a maximum of 1000 objects. If you reach this limit, you can either refine your filter to bring back fewer objects, or explicitly set a maximum using the **MaxCount** parameter. For example:

```
Get-AzureBatchTask -MaxCount 2500 -BatchContext $context

```

To remove the upper bound, set **MaxCount** to 0 or less.

## Related topics
* [Batch technical overview](batch-technical-overview.md)
* [Download Azure PowerShell](http://go.microsoft.com/p/?linkid=9811175)
* [Azure Batch cmdlet reference](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/azure/mt125957.aspx)
* [Efficient List Queries](batch-efficient-list-queries.md)
