articles/billing/billing-how-to-switch-azure-offer.md, before:

---
title: Change Azure subscription offer | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn about how to change your Azure subscription and switch to a different offer using the subscription management portal
services: ''
documentationcenter: ''
author: genlin
manager: jlian
editor: ''
tags: billing,top-support-issue

ms.assetid: aae227b3-6d64-4550-a5b6-d359f53f0a59
ms.service: billing
ms.workload: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 06/13/2017
ms.author: genli

---
# Switch your Azure subscription to another offer

As a [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/) customer, you can switch your Azure subscription to another offer in the [Account Center](https://account.windowsazure.com/Subscriptions). For example, you can use this feature to take advantage of the [monthly credits for Visual Studio subscribers](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/member-offers/msdn-benefits-details/). If you're on [Free Trial](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/), learn how to [upgrade to Pay-As-You-Go](billing-upgrade-azure-subscription.md).

## What's supported:

| From | To |
| --- | --- |
| [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/) |[Pay-As-You-Go Dev/Test](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0023p/) |
| [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/) |[Visual Studio Professional](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0059p/) |
| [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/) |[Visual Studio Test Professional](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0060p/) |
| [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/) |[MSDN Platforms](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0062p/) |
| [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/) |[Visual Studio Enterprise](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0063p/) |
| [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/) |[Visual Studio Enterprise (Bizspark)](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0064p/) |

> [!NOTE]
> For other offer changes, [contact support](https://portal.azure.com/?#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade).
>
>

## Switch subscription offer

> [!VIDEO https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/Microsoft-Azure-Tutorials/Switch-to-a-different-Azure-offer/player]
>
>

1. Sign in at [Azure Account Center](https://account.windowsazure.com/Subscriptions).

1. Select your Pay-As-You-Go subscription.

1. Click **Switch to another offer**. The button is only available if you're on Pay-As-You-Go and done with your first billing period.

   ![Notice the Switch offer button on the right side of the page](./media/billing-how-to-switch-azure-offer/switchbutton.png)

1. **Select the offer you want** from the list of offers your subscription can be switched to. This list varies based on the memberships that your account is associated with. If nothing is available, check the [list of available offers you can switch to](#whats-supported) and make sure you have the right memberships. 

   ![Select an offer that you want to switch to](./media/billing-how-to-switch-azure-offer/selectoffer.png)

1. Depending on the offer you’re switching to, you may see a note about the impact of switching. Go through this list carefully and follow the instructions before you proceed.

   ![Review the notes](./media/billing-how-to-switch-azure-offer/thingstonote.png)

1. You can rename your subscription. By default, we set it to the new offer name. Click **Switch Offer** to complete the process.

   ![Click the green button](./media/billing-how-to-switch-azure-offer/confirmpage.png)

1. Success! Your subscription is now switched to the new offer.

## What is an Azure offer?

An Azure offer is the *type* of the Azure subscription you have. For example, [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/), [Azure in Open](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0111p/), and [Visual Studio Enterprise](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0063p/) are all Azure offers. Each offer has different [terms](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/offer-details/) and some have special benefits. The offer of your subscription can be found in the Account Center subscription page. Click the offer name to get more details.

   ![Click the Offer link in Account Center to get more details](./media/billing-how-to-switch-azure-offer/offerlink.png)

## Why can't I switch offers?

You might not see the **Switch to another offer** button if:

* You're not on [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/). Currently only Pay-As-You-Go subscriptions can be switched to another offer.

  * If you're on [Free Trial](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/), learn how to [upgrade to Pay-As-You-Go](billing-upgrade-azure-subscription.md).
  * To switch offer from a different subscription, [contact support](https://portal.azure.com/?#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade).

* You're still on your first billing period; you must wait for your first billing period to end before you can switch offers.

You might see **There are no offers available in your region or country at this time** if:

* You're not eligible for any offer switches. Check the [list of available offers you can switch to](#whats-supported).

* Some offers may not be available in all countries.

## What does switching Azure offers do to my service and billing?

Here are the details of what happens when you switch Azure plans in the Account Center.

### No service downtime

There is no service downtime for any users associated with the subscription. However, the offer you switch to may have restrictions. For instance, some offers prohibit production use, so you would need to move production resources to another subscription.

### Billing

On the day you switch, an invoice is generated for all outstanding charges. Then, your subscription is billed per the new offer’s pricing terms. Your subscription billing anniversary changes to the date on which you changed offers. Usage and billing data before the offer change is not retained, so we recommend that you download a copy before switching.

> [!NOTE]
> Due to billing-related constraints, offer switches are not possible within the first billing cycle after creating a subscription.
>
>

## Can I migrate from Pay-As-You-Go to [Cloud Solution Provider](https://partner.microsoft.com/Solutions/cloud-reseller-overview) (CSP) or [Enterprise Agreement](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/enterprise-agreement/) (EA)?

* To migrate to CSP, see [Azure Subscription Migration to CSP](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/hybridcloudbp/2016/08/26/azure-subscription-migration-to-csp/).

* To migrate to EA, have your Enrollment Admin add your account into the EA. Follow instructions in the invitation email to have your subscriptions moved under EA enrollment. To learn more, see [Associate an Existing Account](https://ea.azure.com/helpdocs/associateExistingAccount) in the EA portal.

## Can I migrate data and services to a new subscription?

* You can migrate the resources directly to the new subscription, see [Move resources to new resource group or subscription](../azure-resource-manager/resource-group-move-resources.md).

* To transfer ownership of an Azure subscription and everything in it to someone else, see [Transferring ownership of an Azure subscription](billing-subscription-transfer.md)

## Need help? Contact support.

If you still have further questions, [contact support](https://portal.azure.com/?#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade) to get your issue resolved quickly.

Commit message:

Add info on reset quota increases

articles/billing/billing-how-to-switch-azure-offer.md, after:

---
title: Change Azure subscription offer | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn about how to change your Azure subscription and switch to a different offer using the subscription management portal
services: ''
documentationcenter: ''
author: genlin
manager: jlian
editor: ''
tags: billing,top-support-issue

ms.assetid: aae227b3-6d64-4550-a5b6-d359f53f0a59
ms.service: billing
ms.workload: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 07/06/2017
ms.author: genli

---
# Switch your Azure subscription to another offer

As a [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/) customer, you can switch your Azure subscription to another offer in the [Account Center](https://account.windowsazure.com/Subscriptions). For example, you can use this feature to take advantage of the [monthly credits for Visual Studio subscribers](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/member-offers/msdn-benefits-details/). If you're on [Free Trial](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/), learn how to [upgrade to Pay-As-You-Go](billing-upgrade-azure-subscription.md).

## What's supported:

| From | To |
| --- | --- |
| [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/) |[Pay-As-You-Go Dev/Test](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0023p/) |
| [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/) |[Visual Studio Professional](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0059p/) |
| [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/) |[Visual Studio Test Professional](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0060p/) |
| [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/) |[MSDN Platforms](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0062p/) |
| [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/) |[Visual Studio Enterprise](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0063p/) |
| [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/) |[Visual Studio Enterprise (Bizspark)](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0064p/) |

> [!NOTE]
> For other offer changes, [contact support](https://portal.azure.com/?#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade).
>
>

## Switch subscription offer

> [!VIDEO https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/Microsoft-Azure-Tutorials/Switch-to-a-different-Azure-offer/player]
>
>

1. Sign in at [Azure Account Center](https://account.windowsazure.com/Subscriptions).

1. Select your Pay-As-You-Go subscription.

1. Click **Switch to another offer**. The button is only available if you're on Pay-As-You-Go and done with your first billing period.

   ![Notice the Switch offer button on the right side of the page](./media/billing-how-to-switch-azure-offer/switchbutton.png)

1. **Select the offer you want** from the list of offers your subscription can be switched to. This list varies based on the memberships that your account is associated with. If nothing is available, check the [list of available offers you can switch to](#whats-supported) and make sure you have the right memberships. 

   ![Select an offer that you want to switch to](./media/billing-how-to-switch-azure-offer/selectoffer.png)

1. Depending on the offer you’re switching to, you may see a note about the impact of switching. Go through this list carefully and follow the instructions before you proceed.

   ![Review the notes](./media/billing-how-to-switch-azure-offer/thingstonote.png)

1. You can rename your subscription. By default, we set it to the new offer name. Click **Switch Offer** to complete the process.

   ![Click the green button](./media/billing-how-to-switch-azure-offer/confirmpage.png)

1. Success! Your subscription is now switched to the new offer.

## What is an Azure offer?

An Azure offer is the *type* of the Azure subscription you have. For example, [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/), [Azure in Open](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0111p/), and [Visual Studio Enterprise](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0063p/) are all Azure offers. Each offer has different [terms](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/offer-details/) and some have special benefits. The offer of your subscription can be found in the Account Center subscription page. Click the offer name to get more details.

   ![Click the Offer link in Account Center to get more details](./media/billing-how-to-switch-azure-offer/offerlink.png)

## Why can't I switch offers?

You might not see the **Switch to another offer** button if:

* You're not on [Pay-As-You-Go](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0003p/). Currently only Pay-As-You-Go subscriptions can be switched to another offer.

  * If you're on [Free Trial](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/), learn how to [upgrade to Pay-As-You-Go](billing-upgrade-azure-subscription.md).
  * To switch offer from a different subscription, [contact support](https://portal.azure.com/?#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade).

* You're still on your first billing period; you must wait for your first billing period to end before you can switch offers.

You might see **There are no offers available in your region or country at this time** if:

* You're not eligible for any offer switches. Check the [list of available offers you can switch to](#whats-supported).

* Some offers may not be available in all countries.

## What does switching Azure offers do to my service and billing?

Here are the details of what happens when you switch Azure offers in the Account Center.

### No service downtime

There is no service downtime for any users associated with the subscription. However, the offer you switch to may have restrictions. For instance, some offers prohibit production use, so you would need to move production resources to another subscription.

### Quota increases are reset

When you switch offers, any [limit or quota increases above the default limit](../azure-supportability/resource-manager-core-quotas-request.md) are reset. There's no service downtime, even if you have more resources beyond the default limit. For example, you're using 200 cores on your subscription, then switching offers resets your cores quota back to the default of 20 cores. The VMs that uses the 200 cores are unaffected and would continue to run. If you don't make another quota increase request, however, you can't provision any more cores.

### Billing

On the day you switch, an invoice is generated for all outstanding charges. Then, your subscription is billed per the new offer’s pricing terms. Your subscription billing anniversary changes to the date on which you changed offers. Usage and billing data before the offer change is not retained, so we recommend that you download a copy before switching.

> [!NOTE]
> Due to billing-related constraints, offer switches are not possible within the first billing cycle after creating a subscription.
>
>

## Can I migrate from Pay-As-You-Go to [Cloud Solution Provider](https://partner.microsoft.com/Solutions/cloud-reseller-overview) (CSP) or [Enterprise Agreement](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/enterprise-agreement/) (EA)?

* To migrate to CSP, see [Azure Subscription Migration to CSP](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/hybridcloudbp/2016/08/26/azure-subscription-migration-to-csp/).

* To migrate to EA, have your Enrollment Admin add your account into the EA. Follow instructions in the invitation email to have your subscriptions moved under EA enrollment. To learn more, see [Associate an Existing Account](https://ea.azure.com/helpdocs/associateExistingAccount) in the EA portal.

## Can I migrate data and services to a new subscription?

* You can migrate the resources directly to the new subscription, see [Move resources to new resource group or subscription](../azure-resource-manager/resource-group-move-resources.md).

* To transfer ownership of an Azure subscription and everything in it to someone else, see [Transferring ownership of an Azure subscription](billing-subscription-transfer.md)

## Need help? Contact support.

If you still have further questions, [contact support](https://portal.azure.com/?#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade) to get your issue resolved quickly.
