<properties 
	pageTitle="The Azure Cloud Application Platform" 
	description="Learn why Azure App Service is the best platform for developing, publishing, and hosting cloud apps." 
	services="app-service" 
	documentationCenter="na" 
	authors="tdykstra" 
	manager="wpickett" 
	editor="jimbe"/>

<tags 
	ms.service="app-service" 
	ms.workload="web" 
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na" 
	ms.devlang="na" 
	ms.topic="article" 
	ms.date="2/19/2015" 
	ms.author="calvink"/>

# The Azure cloud application platform

## Overview

The only cloud app service that integrates everything you need for quickly and easily building apps for any platform or device at an enterprise level.  

Azure *App Service* is a fully managed platform as a service offering
for Enterprise Developers and System Integrators which makes it easy to
build employee, partner, and customer facing multi-channel (devices and
platforms) apps backed with business processes.

*App Service* provides an integrated cloud app platform that spans the
diverse needs of modern enterprise apps across both client and mobile
devices.

## Azure App Service components

*Azure App Service* is a single service that replaces Websites, Mobile
Services, and Biztalk Services, while adding new capabilities. It allows
developers to build complex multi-platform Web, Mobile, and process
automation apps. Azure App Service includes the following tools and services needed to build a number of common app types:

- Web Apps - Quickly create and deploy mission critical Web apps that scale with your business.

- Mobile Apps - Engage employees, partners and customers on any device at any time.

- API Apps - Easily build and consume Cloud APIs and participate in the API economy.

- Flow Apps - Automate the access and use of data across clouds without writing code.

## Unique, differentiated value proposition for customers

Focused on rapid development of enterprise web and mobile apps as well
as backend business processes, *Azure App Service* provides an
integrated set of enterprise capabilities including mobile app services,
turnkey connectivity to SaaS and enterprise systems, workflow-based
creation of business processes, rich ecosystem of pre-built apps and API
apps that include enterprise grade integration services and role-based
administration. As a fully managed service, Azure App Service automates
scaling, load balancing, and back-ups, as well as deployment and
monitoring. You save the overhead of managing infrastructure, and still
have flexibility to deploy apps across public and private clouds. Here are some of *Azure App Service’s* key benefits.

## Deliver Multi-Channel (Web + Mobile) Apps

*Azure App Service lets developers rapidly build, deploy and manage powerful web and mobile multi-channel apps for employees or customers using a single back-end.*  Build standards-based web apps and APIs
using .NET, NodeJS, PHP, Python, and Java.  Use mobile services to
support any mobile platform natively (iOS, Android, Windows) or using
hybrid frameworks such as Xamarin and Cordova. Securely deliver APIs
enabling additional apps and devices. 

## Familiar and Fast

*Use your existing skills to code in your favorite language, framework, and IDE to build APIs and apps faster than ever before.* With just a few clicks, add versioning, updating, single sign-on, identity broker, isolated storage, and performance monitoring to your existing Web APIs.  Access a rich gallery of APIs, connectors, and workflows to use as building blocks to accelerate your development. Experience unparalleled developer productivity with cutting-edge capabilities like continuous integration, live-site debugging, and industry leading Visual Studio IDE.

## Enterprise Grade

*Azure App Services is designed for building and hosting secure mission-critical applications.* Build Active Directory integrated business apps that connect securely to on-premises resources, then host them on a secure cloud platform that is ISO, SOC2, and PIC compliant. All while enjoying enterprise level SLAs.

## Global Scale

*Azure App Services is optimized to provide high availability and automatic scale on a global datacenter infrastructure.* Easily scale applications up or down on demand, with high availability provided within and across different geographical regions. Replicating data and hosting services in multiple locations is quick and easy, making expansion into new regions and geographies as simple as a mouse click.

## Easily connect to SaaS and enterprise systems

*Easily connect your web or mobile app to any enterprise system or SaaS application in minutes with Azure App Service's built-in connectors.*  With over 50 connectors in the box, for enterprise systems such as SAP, Siebel, and Oracle, enterprise SaaS services such as Salesforce, ZenDesk, and Office365, and internet services such as Facebook, Twitter and Dropbox, *Azure App Service* has all the bases covered.  And with the ability to extend any connector or build your own, no scenario is impossible.

## Integrate data across clouds and create business processes in minutes

*Use Azure App Service to create and run business processes in the cloud in minutes with a simple drag and drop experience.* Take any business process and easily integrate it with any mobile or web app via standard REST APIs.  Go beyond basic simple workflows to create business processes with sophisticated enterprise application integration (EAI), B2B, and business policies using built-in BizTalk capabilities.

## Move faster with a vibrant ecosystem

*Build apps and business process faster with a wealth of pre-built apps, API apps, and templates in the Azure Store.*  Easily find and use what you need to get the job done, with access to a broad range of components and services delivered by Microsoft, certified vendors, and the broader open-source developer community.  As a developer or partner, easily monetize your APIs and vertical solutions via the Azure Marketplace.

## Optimized for DevOps

*Focus on rapidly improving your apps without ever worrying about infrastructure.*  Deploy app updates with built-in staging, roll-back and testing-in-production capabilities.  Achieve high availability with geo-distributed deployments.  Monitor all aspects of your apps in real-time and historically with detailed operational logs.  Never worry about maintaining or patching your infrastructure again.

## Secure management and control

*Enjoy peace of mind with enterprise grade security and management.* Enable delegated and role-based administration of your cloud apps and their resources.  Easily secure and manage data flowing to your mobile apps using built-in capabilities from Microsoft InTune.  Protect your assets with built-in backup and restore capabilities. Rest assured knowing Azure App Services are PCI compliant. And with dedicated isolated resources, and the flexibility to deploy across public and private clouds, *Azure App Service* gives you ultimate control.

## Easily publish and monetize your apps

*Develop amazing applications and microservices and then host them in a public marketplace.* Gain access to new markets and new customers though a simple process for publishing to the Azure Marketplace and App Services Gallery.

