articles/resource-manager-template-lock.md, before:

<properties
   pageTitle="Resource Manager template for resource locks | Microsoft Azure"
   description="Shows the resource manager schema for resource locks."
   services="azure-resource-manager"
   documentationCenter="na"
   authors="tfitzmac"
   manager="wpickett"
   editor=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="azure-resource-manager"
   ms.devlang="na"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
   ms.workload="na"
   ms.date="10/25/2015"
   ms.author="tomfitz"/>

# Resource locks - template schema

Creates a new lock on a resource.

## Schema format

To create a lock, add the following schema to the resources section of your template.
    
    {
        "type": string,
        "apiVersion": "2015-01-01",
        "name": string,
        "dependsOn": [ array values ],
        "properties":
        {
            "level": enum,
            "notes": string
        }
    }



## Values

The following tables describe the values you need to set in the schema.

| Name | Type | Required | Permitted values | Description |
| ---- | ---- | -------- | ---------------- | ----------- |
| type | enum | Yes | **{scope}/providers/locks**<br />**Microsoft.Authorization/locks** | The resource type to create. To lock a resource and all resources below it, use the format {provider-namespace}/{resource-type}/providers/locks. To lock the entire resource group and all of its resources, use Microsoft.Authorization/locks. |
| apiVersion | enum | Yes | **2015-01-01** | The API version to use for creating the resource. |  
| name | string | Yes | 64 characters<br />It cannot contain <, > %, &, ?, or any control characters. | The name of the lock to create. |
| dependsOn | array | No |  | The collection of resources this lock depends on. Each value is a string containing either the resource name or resource unique identifier. If the resource you are locking is being deployed in the same template, specify that resource in this element. | 
| properties | object | Yes | (shown below)  | An object that identifies the type of lock, and notes about the lock. |  

### properties object

| Name | Type | Required | Permitted Values | Description |
| ------- | ---- | ---------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| level   | enum | Yes | **CannotDelete** <br /> **ReadOnly**  | The type of lock to apply to the scope. CanNotDelete allows modification but prevents deletion, ReadOnly prevents modification or deletion. |
| notes   | string | No | 512 characters | Description of the lock. |


## How to use the lock resource

You add this resource to your template to apply a lock to the parent resource.

To create or delete management locks, you must have access to **Microsoft.Authorization/*** or **Microsoft.Authorization/locks/*** actions. Of the built-in roles, only **Owner** and **User Access Administrator** are 
granted those actions.

The lock is applied to the specified resource and any child resources. If you apply more than one lock to a resource, the most restrictive lock takes precedence. For example, if you apply ReadOnly at the 
parent level (such as the resource group) and CanNotDelete on a resource within that group, the more restrictive lock (ReadOnly) from the parent takes precedence. 

## Examples

The following example applies a read-only lock to a web app.

    {
        "apiVersion": "2015-08-01",
        "name": "[variables('siteName')]",
        "type": "Microsoft.Web/sites",
        "location": "[resourceGroup().location]",
        "dependsOn": [ "[resourceId('Microsoft.Web/serverfarms', parameters('hostingPlanName'))]" ],
        "properties": {
            "serverFarmId": "[parameters('hostingPlanName')]"
        },
        "resources": [
            {
                "type": "Microsoft.Authorization/locks",
                "apiVersion": "2015-01-01",
                "name": "SiteLock",
                "dependsOn": [ "[resourceId('Microsoft.Web/sites', variables('siteName'))]" ],
                "properties": {
                    "level": "ReadOnly",
                    "notes": "Web site cannot be modified during this time."
                }
            }
        ]
    }

Commit message:

added more info to locks

articles/resource-manager-template-lock.md, after:

<properties
   pageTitle="Resource Manager template for resource locks | Microsoft Azure"
   description="Shows the resource manager schema for resource locks."
   services="azure-resource-manager"
   documentationCenter="na"
   authors="tfitzmac"
   manager="wpickett"
   editor=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="azure-resource-manager"
   ms.devlang="na"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
   ms.workload="na"
   ms.date="10/25/2015"
   ms.author="tomfitz"/>

# Resource locks - template schema

Creates a new lock on a resource and its child resources.

## Schema format

To create a lock, add the following schema to the resources section of your template.
    
    {
        "type": string,
        "apiVersion": "2015-01-01",
        "name": string,
        "dependsOn": [ array values ],
        "properties":
        {
            "level": enum,
            "notes": string
        }
    }



## Values

The following tables describe the values you need to set in the schema.

| Name | Type | Required | Permitted values | Description |
| ---- | ---- | -------- | ---------------- | ----------- |
| type | enum | Yes | **{provider-namespace}/{resource-type}/providers/locks** or<br />**Microsoft.Authorization/locks** | The resource type to create.<br />To create a lock for a resource and all resources below it, use the format: {provider-namespace}/{resource-type}/providers/locks.<br />To create a lock for the entire resource group and all of its resources, use: Microsoft.Authorization/locks. |
| apiVersion | enum | Yes | **2015-01-01** | The API version to use for creating the resource. |  
| name | string | Yes | 64 characters<br />It cannot contain <, > %, &, ?, or any control characters. | The name of the lock to create. |
| dependsOn | array | No |  | The collection of resources this lock depends on. Each value is a string containing either the resource name or resource unique identifier. If the resource you are locking is being deployed in the same template, you must specify that the lock is dependent on that resource; otherwise, your deployment will fail if the lock is created before the resource to be locked is created. | 
| properties | object | Yes | (shown below)  | An object that identifies the type of lock, and notes about the lock. |  

### properties object

| Name | Type | Required | Permitted Values | Description |
| ------- | ---- | ---------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| level   | enum | Yes | **CannotDelete** <br /> **ReadOnly**  | The type of lock to apply to the scope. CanNotDelete allows modification but prevents deletion, ReadOnly prevents modification or deletion. |
| notes   | string | No | 512 characters | Description of the lock. |


## How to use the lock resource

You add this resource to your template to prevent specified actions on a resource. The lock applies to all users and groups. Typically, you apply a lock for only a limited duration, such as, when a process is running and you want to make sure someone in your organization doesn't inadvertently modify or delete a resource.

To create or delete management locks, you must have access to **Microsoft.Authorization/*** or **Microsoft.Authorization/locks/*** actions. Of the built-in roles, only **Owner** and **User Access Administrator** are 
granted those actions.

The lock is applied to the specified resource and any child resources. If you apply more than one lock to a resource, the most restrictive lock takes precedence. For example, if you apply ReadOnly at the 
parent level (such as the resource group) and CanNotDelete on a resource within that group, the more restrictive lock (ReadOnly) from the parent takes precedence. 

## Examples

The following example applies a read-only lock to a web app.

    {
        "apiVersion": "2015-08-01",
        "name": "[variables('siteName')]",
        "type": "Microsoft.Web/sites",
        "location": "[resourceGroup().location]",
        "dependsOn": [ "[resourceId('Microsoft.Web/serverfarms', parameters('hostingPlanName'))]" ],
        "properties": {
            "serverFarmId": "[parameters('hostingPlanName')]"
        },
        "resources": [
            {
                "type": "Microsoft.Authorization/locks",
                "apiVersion": "2015-01-01",
                "name": "SiteLock",
                "dependsOn": [ "[resourceId('Microsoft.Web/sites', variables('siteName'))]" ],
                "properties": {
                    "level": "ReadOnly",
                    "notes": "Web site cannot be modified during this time."
                }
            }
        ]
    }

## Next steps

- For information about the template structure, see [Authoring Azure Resource Manager templates](resource-group-authoring-templates.md).
- For more information about locks, see [Lock resources with Azure Resource Manager](resource-group-lock-resources.md).
