articles/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-linux-tutorial.md, before:

<properties
	pageTitle="Create a virtual machine running Linux | Microsoft Azure"
	description="Learn to create Azure virtual machine (VM) running Linux by using an image from Azure and the Azure Command-Line Interface."
	services="virtual-machines"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="squillace"
	manager="timlt"
	editor="tysonn"
	tags="azure-resource-manager" />

<tags
	ms.service="virtual-machines"
	ms.workload="infrastructure-services"
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="vm-linux"
	ms.devlang="na"
	ms.topic="hero-article"
	ms.date="07/13/2015"
	ms.author="rasquill"/>

# Create a Virtual Machine Running Linux

> [AZURE.SELECTOR]
- [Azure Portal](virtual-machines-linux-tutorial-portal-rm.md)
- [Azure CLI](virtual-machines-linux-tutorial.md)

Creating an Azure virtual machine (VM) that runs Linux is easy to do from the command line or from the portal. This tutorial shows you how to use the Azure Command-Line Interface for Mac, Linux, and Windows (the Azure CLI) to create quickly an Ubuntu Server VM running in Azure, connect to it using **ssh**, and creating and mounting a new disk. (This topic uses an Ubuntu Server VM, but you can also create Linux VMs using [your own images as templates](virtual-machines-linux-create-upload-vhd.md).)

[AZURE.INCLUDE [free-trial-note](../../includes/free-trial-note.md)]

## Video walkthrough

Here's a walkthrough of this tutorial.

[AZURE.VIDEO building-a-linux-virtual-machine-tutorial]

## Install the Azure CLI

The first step is to [install the Azure CLI](../xplat-cli-install.md).

Good. Now make sure you're in the Resource Manager mode by typing `azure config mode arm`.

Even better. Now [log in with your work or school id](../xplat-cli-connect.md#use-the-log-in-method) by typing `azure login` and following the prompts.

> [AZURE.NOTE] If you receive an error logging in, you may need to [create a work or school id from your personal Microsoft account](resource-group-create-work-id-from-personal.md).

## Create your Azure VM

Type `azure group create <my-group-name> westus` replacing _&lt;my-group-name&gt;_ with a group name that's unique to you (you can use a different region if you want). You should see something like the following:

	azure group create myuniquegroupname westus
	info:    Executing command group create
	+ Getting resource group myuniquegroupname
	+ Creating resource group myuniquegroupname
	info:    Created resource group myuniquegroupname
	data:    Id:                  /subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/myuniquegroupname
	data:    Name:                myuniquegroupname
	data:    Location:            westus
	data:    Provisioning State:  Succeeded
	data:    Tags:
	data:
	info:    group create command OK

Now create your VM by typing `azure vm quick-create`, and you'll receive prompts to input the remaining parameters. Use the name of the resource group that you just created, above, and for the **ImageURN** value, use `canonical:ubuntuserver:14.04.2-LTS:latest`, so that your experience looks something like:

	azure vm quick-create
	info:    Executing command vm quick-create
	Resource group name: myuniquegroupname
	Virtual machine name: myuniquevmname
	Location name: westus
	Operating system Type [Windows, Linux]: Linux
	ImageURN (format: "publisherName:offer:skus:version"): canonical:ubuntuserver:14.04.2-LTS:latest
	User name: ops
	Password: *********
	Confirm password: *********
	+ Looking up the VM "myuniquevmname"
	info:    Using the VM Size "Standard_D1"
	info:    The [OS, Data] Disk or image configuration requires storage account
	+ Retrieving storage accounts
	info:    Could not find any storage accounts in the region "westus", trying to create new one
	+ Creating storage account "cli3c0464f24f1bf4f014323" in "westus"
	+ Looking up the storage account cli3c0464f24f1bf4f014323
	+ Looking up the NIC "myuni-westu-1432328437727-nic"
	info:    An nic with given name "myuni-westu-1432328437727-nic" not found, creating a new one
	+ Looking up the virtual network "myuni-westu-1432328437727-vnet"
	info:    Preparing to create new virtual network and subnet
	/ Creating a new virtual network "myuni-westu-1432328437727-vnet" [address prefix: "10.0.0.0/16"] with subnet "myuni-westu-1432328437727-snet"+[address prefix: "10.0.1.0/24"]
	+ Looking up the virtual network "myuni-westu-1432328437727-vnet"
	+ Looking up the subnet "myuni-westu-1432328437727-snet" under the virtual network "myuni-westu-1432328437727-vnet"
	info:    Found public ip parameters, trying to setup PublicIP profile
	+ Looking up the public ip "myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip"
	info:    PublicIP with given name "myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip" not found, creating a new one
	+ Creating public ip "myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip"
	+ Looking up the public ip "myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip"
	+ Creating NIC "myuni-westu-1432328437727-nic"
	+ Looking up the NIC "myuni-westu-1432328437727-nic"
	+ Creating VM "myuniquevmname"
	+ Looking up the VM "myuniquevmname"
	+ Looking up the NIC "myuni-westu-1432328437727-nic"
	+ Looking up the public ip "myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip"
	data:    Id                              :/subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/myuniquegroupname/providers/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/myuniquevmname
	data:    ProvisioningState               :Succeeded
	data:    Name                            :myuniquevmname
	data:    Location                        :westus
	data:    FQDN                            :myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip.westus.cloudapp.azure.com
	data:    Type                            :Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines
	data:
	data:    Hardware Profile:
	data:      Size                          :Standard_D1
	data:
	data:    Storage Profile:
	data:      Image reference:
	data:        Publisher                   :canonical
	data:        Offer                       :ubuntuserver
	data:        Sku                         :14.04.2-LTS
	data:        Version                     :latest
	data:
	data:      OS Disk:
	data:        OSType                      :Linux
	data:        Name                        :cli3c0464f24f1bf4f0-os-1432328438224
	data:        Caching                     :ReadWrite
	data:        CreateOption                :FromImage
	data:        Vhd:
	data:          Uri                       :https://cli3c0464f24f1bf4f014323.blob.core.windows.net/vhds/cli3c0464f24f1bf4f0-os-1432328438224.vhd
	data:
	data:    OS Profile:
	data:      Computer Name                 :myuniquevmname
	data:      User Name                     :ops
	data:      Linux Configuration:
	data:        Disable Password Auth       :false
	data:
	data:    Network Profile:
	data:      Network Interfaces:
	data:        Network Interface #1:
	data:          Id                        :/subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/myuniquegroupname/providers/Microsoft.Network/networkInterfaces/myuni-westu-1432328437727-nic
	data:          Primary                   :true
	data:          MAC Address               :00-0D-3A-31-55-31
	data:          Provisioning State        :Succeeded
	data:          Name                      :myuni-westu-1432328437727-nic
	data:          Location                  :westus
	data:            Private IP alloc-method :Dynamic
	data:            Private IP address      :10.0.1.4
	data:            Public IP address       :191.239.51.1
	data:            FQDN                    :myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip.westus.cloudapp.azure.com
	info:    vm quick-create command OK

Your VM is up and running and waiting for you to connect.

## Connecting to your VM

With Linux VMs, you typically connect using **ssh**. This topic connects to a VM using usernames and passwords; to use public and private key pairs to communicate with your VM, see [How to Use SSH with Linux on Azure](virtual-machines-linux-use-ssh-key.md).

If you're not familiar with connecting with **ssh**, the command takes the form `ssh <username>@<publicdnsaddress> -p <the ssh port>`. In this case, we use the username and password from the previous step and port 22, which is the default **ssh** port.

	ssh ops@myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip.westus.cloudapp.azure.com -p 22
	The authenticity of host 'myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip.westus.cloudapp.azure.com (191.239.51.1)' can't be established.
	ECDSA key fingerprint is bx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:x:x:x:x:x:x:xx.
	Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)? yes
	Warning: Permanently added 'myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip.westus.cloudapp.azure.com,191.239.51.1' (ECDSA) to the list of known hosts.
	ops@myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip.westus.cloudapp.azure.com's password:
	Welcome to Ubuntu 14.04.2 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.16.0-37-generic x86_64)

	 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com/

	  System information as of Fri May 22 21:02:32 UTC 2015

	  System load: 0.37              Memory usage: 2%   Processes:       207
	  Usage of /:  41.4% of 1.94GB   Swap usage:   0%   Users logged in: 0

	  Graph this data and manage this system at:
	    https://landscape.canonical.com/

	  Get cloud support with Ubuntu Advantage Cloud Guest:
	    http://www.ubuntu.com/business/services/cloud

	0 packages can be updated.
	0 updates are security updates.



	The programs included with the Ubuntu system are free software;
	the exact distribution terms for each program are described in the
	individual files in /usr/share/doc/*/copyright.

	Ubuntu comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by
	applicable law.

	ops@myuniquevmname:~$

Now that you're connected to your VM, you're ready to attach a disk.

## Attach and mount a disk

Attaching a new disk is quick. Just type `azure vm disk attach-new <myuniquegroupname> <myuniquevmname> <size-in-GB>` to create and attach a new GB disk for your VM. It should look something like this:

	azure vm disk attach-new myuniquegroupname myuniquevmname 5
	info:    Executing command vm disk attach-new
	+ Looking up the VM "myuniquevmname"
	info:    New data disk location: https://cliexxx.blob.core.windows.net/vhds/myuniquevmname-20150526-0xxxxxxx43.vhd
	+ Updating VM "myuniquevmname"
	info:    vm disk attach-new command OK


Now let's find the disk, using `dmesg | grep SCSI` (the method you use to discover your new disk may vary). In this case, it looks something like:

	dmesg | grep SCSI
	[    0.294784] SCSI subsystem initialized
	[    0.573458] Block layer SCSI generic (bsg) driver version 0.4 loaded (major 252)
	[    7.110271] sd 2:0:0:0: [sda] Attached SCSI disk
	[    8.079653] sd 3:0:1:0: [sdb] Attached SCSI disk
	[ 1828.162306] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdc] Attached SCSI disk

and in the case of this topic, the `sdc` disk is the one that we want. Now partition the disk with `sudo fdisk /dev/sdc` -- assuming that in your case the disk was `sdc`, and make it a primary disk on partition 1, and accept the other defaults.

	sudo fdisk /dev/sdc
	Device contains neither a valid DOS partition table, nor Sun, SGI or OSF disklabel
	Building a new DOS disklabel with disk identifier 0x2a59b123.
	Changes will remain in memory only, until you decide to write them.
	After that, of course, the previous content won't be recoverable.

	Warning: invalid flag 0x0000 of partition table 4 will be corrected by w(rite)

	Command (m for help): n
	Partition type:
	   p   primary (0 primary, 0 extended, 4 free)
	   e   extended
	Select (default p): p
	Partition number (1-4, default 1): 1
	First sector (2048-10485759, default 2048):
	Using default value 2048
	Last sector, +sectors or +size{K,M,G} (2048-10485759, default 10485759):
	Using default value 10485759

Create the partition by typing `p` at the prompt:

	Command (m for help): p

	Disk /dev/sdc: 5368 MB, 5368709120 bytes
	255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 652 cylinders, total 10485760 sectors
	Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
	Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
	I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
	Disk identifier: 0x2a59b123

	   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
	/dev/sdc1            2048    10485759     5241856   83  Linux

	Command (m for help): w
	The partition table has been altered!

	Calling ioctl() to re-read partition table.
	Syncing disks.

And write a file system to the partition by using the **mkfs** command, specifying your filesystem type and the device name. In this topic, we're using `ext4` and `/dev/sdc1` from above:

	sudo mkfs -t ext4 /dev/sdc1
	mke2fs 1.42.9 (4-Feb-2014)
	Discarding device blocks: done
	Filesystem label=
	OS type: Linux
	Block size=4096 (log=2)
	Fragment size=4096 (log=2)
	Stride=0 blocks, Stripe width=0 blocks
	327680 inodes, 1310464 blocks
	65523 blocks (5.00%) reserved for the super user
	First data block=0
	Maximum filesystem blocks=1342177280
	40 block groups
	32768 blocks per group, 32768 fragments per group
	8192 inodes per group
	Superblock backups stored on blocks:
		32768, 98304, 163840, 229376, 294912, 819200, 884736

	Allocating group tables: done
	Writing inode tables: done
	Creating journal (32768 blocks): done
	Writing superblocks and filesystem accounting information: done

Now we create a directory to mount the file system using `mkdir`:

	sudo mkdir /datadrive

And you mount the directory using `mount`:

	sudo mount /dev/sdc1 /datadrive

The data disk is now ready to use as `/datadrive`.

	ls
	bin   datadrive  etc   initrd.img  lib64       media  opt   root  sbin  sys  usr  vmlinuz
	boot  dev        home  lib         lost+found  mnt    proc  run   srv   tmp  var

> [AZURE.NOTE] You can also connect to your Linux virtual machine using an SSH key for identification. For details, see [How to Use SSH with Linux on Azure](virtual-machines-linux-use-ssh-key.md).

## Next Steps

Remember, that your new disk will not typically be available to the VM if it reboots unless you write that information to your [fstab](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fstab) file.

To learn more about Linux on Azure, see:

- [Linux and Open-Source Computing on Azure](virtual-machines-linux-opensource.md)

- [How to use the Azure Command-Line Interface](../virtual-machines-command-line-tools.md)

- [Deploy a LAMP app using the Azure CustomScript Extension for Linux](virtual-machines-linux-script-lamp.md)

- [The Docker Virtual Machine Extension for Linux on Azure](virtual-machines-docker-vm-extension.md)

Commit message:

refreshed the lead hero article for linux

articles/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-linux-tutorial.md, after:

<properties
	pageTitle="Create a virtual machine running Linux | Microsoft Azure"
	description="Learn to create Azure virtual machine (VM) running Linux by using an image from Azure and the Azure Command-Line Interface."
	services="virtual-machines"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="squillace"
	manager="timlt"
	editor="tysonn"
	tags="azure-resource-manager" />

<tags
	ms.service="virtual-machines"
	ms.workload="infrastructure-services"
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="vm-linux"
	ms.devlang="na"
	ms.topic="hero-article"
	ms.date="10/21/2015"
	ms.author="rasquill"/>

# Create a Virtual Machine Running Linux

> [AZURE.SELECTOR]
- [Azure Portal](virtual-machines-linux-tutorial-portal-rm.md)
- [Azure CLI](virtual-machines-linux-tutorial.md)

Creating an Azure virtual machine (VM) that runs Linux is easy to do from the command line or from the portal. This tutorial shows you how to use the Azure Command-Line Interface for Mac, Linux, and Windows (the Azure CLI) to create quickly an Ubuntu Server VM running in Azure, connect to it using **ssh**, and creating and mounting a new disk. (This topic uses an Ubuntu Server VM, but you can also create Linux VMs using [your own images as templates](virtual-machines-linux-create-upload-vhd.md).)

[AZURE.INCLUDE [free-trial-note](../../includes/free-trial-note.md)]

## Video walkthrough

Here's a walkthrough of this tutorial.

[AZURE.VIDEO building-a-linux-virtual-machine-tutorial]

## Install the Azure CLI

The first step is to [install the Azure CLI](../xplat-cli-install.md).

Good. Now make sure you're in the Resource Manager mode by typing `azure config mode arm`.

Even better. Now [log in with your work or school id](../xplat-cli-connect.md#use-the-log-in-method) by typing `azure login` and following the prompts for an interactive login experience to your Azure account.

> [AZURE.NOTE] If you have a work or school ID and you know you do not have two-factor authentication enabled, you can use `azure login -u` along with the work or school ID to log in without an interactive session. If you don't have a work or school ID, you can [create a work or school id from your personal Microsoft account](resource-group-create-work-id-from-personal.md).

## Create your Azure VM

Type `azure group create <my-group-name> westus` replacing _&lt;my-group-name&gt;_ with a group name that's unique to you (you can use a different region if you want). You should see something like the following:

	azure group create myuniquegroupname westus
	info:    Executing command group create
	+ Getting resource group myuniquegroupname
	+ Creating resource group myuniquegroupname
	info:    Created resource group myuniquegroupname
	data:    Id:                  /subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/myuniquegroupname
	data:    Name:                myuniquegroupname
	data:    Location:            westus
	data:    Provisioning State:  Succeeded
	data:    Tags:
	data:
	info:    group create command OK

Now create your VM by typing `azure vm quick-create`, and you'll receive prompts to input the remaining parameters. Use the name of the resource group that you just created, above, and for the **ImageURN** value, use `canonical:ubuntuserver:14.04.2-LTS:latest`, so that your experience looks something like the following. Note that the `azure vm quick-create` command prompts for basic information it requires to create, host, and connect to a Linux VM, including:

- the resource group name and VM name
- a deployment location
- the operating system type and the image URN string
- a username and password

and then creates the infrastructure necessary to host the VM. This includes:

- An Azure storage account for VHD storage and extra disks
- A NIC for the VM
- a vnet with a subnet
- a public IP address
- a subdomain

	azure vm quick-create
	info:    Executing command vm quick-create
	Resource group name: myuniquegroupname
	Virtual machine name: myuniquevmname
	Location name: westus
	Operating system Type [Windows, Linux]: Linux
	ImageURN (format: "publisherName:offer:skus:version"): canonical:ubuntuserver:14.04.2-LTS:latest
	User name: ops
	Password: *********
	Confirm password: *********
	+ Looking up the VM "myuniquevmname"
	info:    Using the VM Size "Standard_D1"
	info:    The [OS, Data] Disk or image configuration requires storage account
	+ Retrieving storage accounts
	info:    Could not find any storage accounts in the region "westus", trying to create new one
	+ Creating storage account "cli3c0464f24f1bf4f014323" in "westus"
	+ Looking up the storage account cli3c0464f24f1bf4f014323
	+ Looking up the NIC "myuni-westu-1432328437727-nic"
	info:    An nic with given name "myuni-westu-1432328437727-nic" not found, creating a new one
	+ Looking up the virtual network "myuni-westu-1432328437727-vnet"
	info:    Preparing to create new virtual network and subnet
	/ Creating a new virtual network "myuni-westu-1432328437727-vnet" [address prefix: "10.0.0.0/16"] with subnet "myuni-westu-1432328437727-snet"+[address prefix: "10.0.1.0/24"]
	+ Looking up the virtual network "myuni-westu-1432328437727-vnet"
	+ Looking up the subnet "myuni-westu-1432328437727-snet" under the virtual network "myuni-westu-1432328437727-vnet"
	info:    Found public ip parameters, trying to setup PublicIP profile
	+ Looking up the public ip "myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip"
	info:    PublicIP with given name "myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip" not found, creating a new one
	+ Creating public ip "myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip"
	+ Looking up the public ip "myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip"
	+ Creating NIC "myuni-westu-1432328437727-nic"
	+ Looking up the NIC "myuni-westu-1432328437727-nic"
	+ Creating VM "myuniquevmname"
	+ Looking up the VM "myuniquevmname"
	+ Looking up the NIC "myuni-westu-1432328437727-nic"
	+ Looking up the public ip "myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip"
	data:    Id                              :/subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/myuniquegroupname/providers/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/myuniquevmname
	data:    ProvisioningState               :Succeeded
	data:    Name                            :myuniquevmname
	data:    Location                        :westus
	data:    FQDN                            :myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip.westus.cloudapp.azure.com
	data:    Type                            :Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines
	data:
	data:    Hardware Profile:
	data:      Size                          :Standard_D1
	data:
	data:    Storage Profile:
	data:      Image reference:
	data:        Publisher                   :canonical
	data:        Offer                       :ubuntuserver
	data:        Sku                         :14.04.2-LTS
	data:        Version                     :latest
	data:
	data:      OS Disk:
	data:        OSType                      :Linux
	data:        Name                        :cli3c0464f24f1bf4f0-os-1432328438224
	data:        Caching                     :ReadWrite
	data:        CreateOption                :FromImage
	data:        Vhd:
	data:          Uri                       :https://cli3c0464f24f1bf4f014323.blob.core.windows.net/vhds/cli3c0464f24f1bf4f0-os-1432328438224.vhd
	data:
	data:    OS Profile:
	data:      Computer Name                 :myuniquevmname
	data:      User Name                     :ops
	data:      Linux Configuration:
	data:        Disable Password Auth       :false
	data:
	data:    Network Profile:
	data:      Network Interfaces:
	data:        Network Interface #1:
	data:          Id                        :/subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/myuniquegroupname/providers/Microsoft.Network/networkInterfaces/myuni-westu-1432328437727-nic
	data:          Primary                   :true
	data:          MAC Address               :00-0D-3A-31-55-31
	data:          Provisioning State        :Succeeded
	data:          Name                      :myuni-westu-1432328437727-nic
	data:          Location                  :westus
	data:            Private IP alloc-method :Dynamic
	data:            Private IP address      :10.0.1.4
	data:            Public IP address       :191.239.51.1
	data:            FQDN                    :myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip.westus.cloudapp.azure.com
	info:    vm quick-create command OK

Your VM is up and running and waiting for you to connect.

## Connecting to your VM

With Linux VMs, you typically connect using **ssh**. 

> [AZURE.NOTE] This topic connects to a VM using usernames and passwords; to use public and private key pairs to communicate with your VM, see [How to Use SSH with Linux on Azure](virtual-machines-linux-use-ssh-key.md). You can modify the **SSH** connectivity of VMs created with the `azure vm quick-create` command by using the `azure vm reset-access` command to reset **SSH** access completely, add or remove users, or add public key files to secure access. This article uses username and password with **SSH** for brevity.

If you're not familiar with connecting with **ssh**, the command takes the form `ssh <username>@<publicdnsaddress> -p <the ssh port>`. In this case, we use the username and password from the previous step and port 22, which is the default **ssh** port.

	ssh ops@myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip.westus.cloudapp.azure.com -p 22
	The authenticity of host 'myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip.westus.cloudapp.azure.com (191.239.51.1)' can't be established.
	ECDSA key fingerprint is bx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:x:x:x:x:x:x:xx.
	Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)? yes
	Warning: Permanently added 'myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip.westus.cloudapp.azure.com,191.239.51.1' (ECDSA) to the list of known hosts.
	ops@myuni-westu-1432328437727-pip.westus.cloudapp.azure.com's password:
	Welcome to Ubuntu 14.04.2 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.16.0-37-generic x86_64)

	 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com/

	  System information as of Fri May 22 21:02:32 UTC 2015

	  System load: 0.37              Memory usage: 2%   Processes:       207
	  Usage of /:  41.4% of 1.94GB   Swap usage:   0%   Users logged in: 0

	  Graph this data and manage this system at:
	    https://landscape.canonical.com/

	  Get cloud support with Ubuntu Advantage Cloud Guest:
	    http://www.ubuntu.com/business/services/cloud

	0 packages can be updated.
	0 updates are security updates.



	The programs included with the Ubuntu system are free software;
	the exact distribution terms for each program are described in the
	individual files in /usr/share/doc/*/copyright.

	Ubuntu comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by
	applicable law.

	ops@myuniquevmname:~$

Now that you're connected to your VM, you're ready to attach a disk.

## Attach and mount a disk

Attaching a new disk is quick. Just type `azure vm disk attach-new <myuniquegroupname> <myuniquevmname> <size-in-GB>` to create and attach a new GB disk for your VM. It should look something like this:

	azure vm disk attach-new myuniquegroupname myuniquevmname 5
	info:    Executing command vm disk attach-new
	+ Looking up the VM "myuniquevmname"
	info:    New data disk location: https://cliexxx.blob.core.windows.net/vhds/myuniquevmname-20150526-0xxxxxxx43.vhd
	+ Updating VM "myuniquevmname"
	info:    vm disk attach-new command OK


Now let's find the disk, using `dmesg | grep SCSI` (the method you use to discover your new disk may vary). In this case, it looks something like:

	dmesg | grep SCSI
	[    0.294784] SCSI subsystem initialized
	[    0.573458] Block layer SCSI generic (bsg) driver version 0.4 loaded (major 252)
	[    7.110271] sd 2:0:0:0: [sda] Attached SCSI disk
	[    8.079653] sd 3:0:1:0: [sdb] Attached SCSI disk
	[ 1828.162306] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdc] Attached SCSI disk

and in the case of this topic, the `sdc` disk is the one that we want. Now partition the disk with `sudo fdisk /dev/sdc` -- assuming that in your case the disk was `sdc`, and make it a primary disk on partition 1, and accept the other defaults.

	sudo fdisk /dev/sdc
	Device contains neither a valid DOS partition table, nor Sun, SGI or OSF disklabel
	Building a new DOS disklabel with disk identifier 0x2a59b123.
	Changes will remain in memory only, until you decide to write them.
	After that, of course, the previous content won't be recoverable.

	Warning: invalid flag 0x0000 of partition table 4 will be corrected by w(rite)

	Command (m for help): n
	Partition type:
	   p   primary (0 primary, 0 extended, 4 free)
	   e   extended
	Select (default p): p
	Partition number (1-4, default 1): 1
	First sector (2048-10485759, default 2048):
	Using default value 2048
	Last sector, +sectors or +size{K,M,G} (2048-10485759, default 10485759):
	Using default value 10485759

Create the partition by typing `p` at the prompt:

	Command (m for help): p

	Disk /dev/sdc: 5368 MB, 5368709120 bytes
	255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 652 cylinders, total 10485760 sectors
	Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
	Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
	I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
	Disk identifier: 0x2a59b123

	   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
	/dev/sdc1            2048    10485759     5241856   83  Linux

	Command (m for help): w
	The partition table has been altered!

	Calling ioctl() to re-read partition table.
	Syncing disks.

And write a file system to the partition by using the **mkfs** command, specifying your filesystem type and the device name. In this topic, we're using `ext4` and `/dev/sdc1` from above:

	sudo mkfs -t ext4 /dev/sdc1
	mke2fs 1.42.9 (4-Feb-2014)
	Discarding device blocks: done
	Filesystem label=
	OS type: Linux
	Block size=4096 (log=2)
	Fragment size=4096 (log=2)
	Stride=0 blocks, Stripe width=0 blocks
	327680 inodes, 1310464 blocks
	65523 blocks (5.00%) reserved for the super user
	First data block=0
	Maximum filesystem blocks=1342177280
	40 block groups
	32768 blocks per group, 32768 fragments per group
	8192 inodes per group
	Superblock backups stored on blocks:
		32768, 98304, 163840, 229376, 294912, 819200, 884736

	Allocating group tables: done
	Writing inode tables: done
	Creating journal (32768 blocks): done
	Writing superblocks and filesystem accounting information: done

Now we create a directory to mount the file system using `mkdir`:

	sudo mkdir /datadrive

And you mount the directory using `mount`:

	sudo mount /dev/sdc1 /datadrive

The data disk is now ready to use as `/datadrive`.

	ls
	bin   datadrive  etc   initrd.img  lib64       media  opt   root  sbin  sys  usr  vmlinuz
	boot  dev        home  lib         lost+found  mnt    proc  run   srv   tmp  var

> [AZURE.NOTE] You can also connect to your Linux virtual machine using an SSH key for identification. For details, see [How to Use SSH with Linux on Azure](virtual-machines-linux-use-ssh-key.md).

## Next Steps

Remember, that your new disk will not typically be available to the VM if it reboots unless you write that information to your [fstab](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fstab) file. If you want, you can add several more disks and [configure RAID](virtual-machines-linux-configure-raid.md). 

To learn more about Linux on Azure, see:

- [Linux and Open-Source Computing on Azure](virtual-machines-linux-opensource.md)

- [How to use the Azure Command-Line Interface](../virtual-machines-command-line-tools.md)

- [Deploy a LAMP app using the Azure CustomScript Extension for Linux](virtual-machines-linux-script-lamp.md)

- [The Docker Virtual Machine Extension for Linux on Azure](virtual-machines-docker-vm-extension.md)
