articles/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-windows-capture-image.md, before:

<properties
	pageTitle="Create a VM image from an Azure VM | Microsoft Azure"
	description="Learn how to create a generalized VM image from an existing Azure VM created in the Resource Manager deployment model"
	services="virtual-machines-windows"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="cynthn"
	manager="timlt"
	editor=""
	tags="azure-resource-manager"/>

<tags
	ms.service="virtual-machines-windows"
	ms.workload="infrastructure-services"
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="vm-windows"
	ms.devlang="na"
	ms.topic="article"
	ms.date="08/04/2016"
	ms.author="cynthn"/>

# How to create a VM image from an existing Azure VM


This article shows you how to use Azure PowerShell create a generalized image of an existing Azure VM. You can then use the image to create another VM. This image includes the OS disk and the data disks that are attached to the virtual machine. The image doesn't include the virtual network resources, so you need to set up those resources when you create a VM using the image. This process creates a [generalized Windows image](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/hh824938.aspx).


## Prerequisites

- These steps assume that you already have an Azure virtual machine in the Resource Manager deployment model that you want to use to create the image. You need the VM name and the name of the resource group. You can get a list of the resource groups in your subscription by typing the PowerShell cmdlet `Get-AzureRmResourceGroup`. You can get a list of the VMs in your subscription by typing `Get-AzureRMVM`.

- You need to have Azure PowerShell version 1.0.x installed. If you haven't already installed PowerShell, read [How to install and configure Azure PowerShell](../powershell-install-configure.md) for installation steps.

## Prepare the source VM 

This section shows you how to generalize your Windows virtual machine so that it can be used as an image.

> [AZURE.WARNING] You cannot log in to the VM via RDP once it is generalized, because the process removes all user accounts. The changes are irreversible. 

1. Sign in to your Windows virtual machine. In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), navigate through **Browse** > **Virtual machines** > Your Windows virtual machine > **Connect**.

2. Open a Command Prompt window as an administrator.

3. Change the directory to `%windir%\system32\sysprep`, and then run sysprep.exe.

4. In the **System Preparation Tool** dialog box, do the following:

	- In **System Cleanup Action**, select **Enter System Out-of-Box Experience (OOBE)** and make sure that **Generalize** is checked. For more information about using Sysprep, see [How to Use Sysprep: An Introduction](http://technet.microsoft.com/library/bb457073.aspx).

	- In **Shutdown Options**, select **Shutdown**.

	- Click **OK**.

	![Run Sysprep](./media/virtual-machines-windows-capture-image/SysprepGeneral.png)

   Sysprep shuts down the virtual machine. Its status changes to **Stopped** in the Azure portal.


## Log in to Azure PowerShell

1. Open Azure PowerShell and sign in to your Azure account.

		Login-AzureRmAccount

	A pop-up window opens for you to enter your Azure account credentials.

2. Get the subscription IDs for your available subscriptions.

		Get-AzureRmSubscription

3. Set the correct subscription using the subscription ID.		

		Select-AzureRmSubscription -SubscriptionId "<subscriptionID>"


## Deallocate the VM and set the state to generalized		

1. Deallocate the VM resources.

		Stop-AzureRmVM -ResourceGroupName <resourceGroup> -Name <vmName>

	The *Status* for the VM in the Azure portal changes from **Stopped** to **Stopped (deallocated)**.

2. Set the status of the virtual machine to **Generalized**. 

		Set-AzureRmVm -ResourceGroupName <resourceGroup> -Name <vmName> -Generalized

3. Check the status of the VM. The **OSState/generalized** section for the VM should have the **DisplayStatus** set to **VM generalized**.  
		
		$vm = Get-AzureRmVM -ResourceGroupName <resourceGroup> -Name <vmName> -status
		$vm.Statuses

		
## Create the image 

1. Copy the virtual machine image to the destination storage container using this command. The image is created in the same storage account as the original virtual machine. The `-Path` variable saves a copy of the JSON template locally. The `-DestinationContainerName` variable is the name of the container that you want to hold your images. If the container doesn't exist, it is created for you.

		Save-AzureRmVMImage -ResourceGroupName YourResourceGroup -VMName YourWindowsVM -DestinationContainerName YourImagesContainer -VHDNamePrefix YourTemplatePrefix -Path Yourlocalfilepath\Filename.json

	You can get the URL of your image from the JSON file template. Go to the **resources** > **storageProfile** > **osDisk** > **image** > **uri** section for the complete path of your image. The URL of the image looks like: `https://<storageAccountName>.blob.core.windows.net/system/Microsoft.Compute/Images/<imagesContainer>/<templatePrefix-osDisk>.xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx.vhd`.
	
	You can also verify the URI in the portal. The image is copied to a blob named **system** in your storage account. 

2. Create a variable for the path to the image. 

		$imageURI = "<https://<storageAccountName>.blob.core.windows.net/system/Microsoft.Compute/Images/<imagesContainer>/<templatePrefix-osDisk>.xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx.vhd>"


## Create a virtual network

Create the vNet and subNet of the [virtual network](../virtual-network/virtual-networks-overview.md).
		

1. Replace the value of variables with your own information. Provide the address prefix for the subnet in CIDR format. Create the variables and the subnet.

    	$rgName = "<resourceGroup>"
		$location = "<location>"
        $subnetName = "<subNetName>"
        $singleSubnet = New-AzureRmVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name $subnetName -AddressPrefix <0.0.0.0/0>
        
2. Replace the value of **$vnetName** with a name for the virtual network. Provide the address prefix for the virtual network in CIDR format. Create the variable and the virtual network with the subnet.

        $vnetName = "<vnetName>"
        $vnet = New-AzureRmVirtualNetwork -Name $vnetName -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Location $locName -AddressPrefix <0.0.0.0/0> -Subnet $singleSubnet
        
            
## Create a public IP address and network interface

To enable communication with the virtual machine in the virtual network, you need a [public IP address](../virtual-network/virtual-network-ip-addresses-overview-arm.md) and a network interface.

1. Replace the value of **$ipName** with a name for the public IP address. Create the variable and the public IP address.

        $ipName = "<ipName>"
        $pip = New-AzureRmPublicIpAddress -Name $ipName -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Location $locName -AllocationMethod Dynamic
        
2. Replace the value of **$nicName** with a name for the network interface. Create the variable and the network interface.

        $nicName = "<nicName>"
        $nic = New-AzureRmNetworkInterface -Name $nicName -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Location $locName -SubnetId $vnet.Subnets[0].Id -PublicIpAddressId $pip.Id


## Create the VM

The following PowerShell script shows how to set up the virtual machine configurations and use the uploaded VM image as the source for the new installation.

>[AZURE.NOTE] The VM needs to be in the same storage account as the original VHD.

</br>

	
	
	
	#Create variables
	# Enter a new user name and password to use as the local administrator account for the remotely accessing the VM
	$cred = Get-Credential
	
	# Name of the storage account 
	$storageAccName = "<storageAccountName>"
	
	# Name of the virtual machine
	$vmName = "<vmName>"
	
	# Size of the virtual machine. See the VM sizes documentation for more information: https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/virtual-machines-windows-sizes/
	$vmSize = "<vmSize>"
	
	# Computer name for the VM
	$computerName = "<computerName>"
	
	# Name of the disk that holds the OS
	$osDiskName = "<osDiskName>"
	
	# Assign a SKU name
	# Valid values for -SkuName are: **Standard_LRS** - locally redundant storage, **Standard_ZRS** - zone redundant storage, **Standard_GRS** - geo redundant storage, **Standard_RAGRS** - read access geo redundant storage, **Premium_LRS** - premium locally redundant storage. 
	$skuName = "<skuName>"
	
	# Create a new storage account for the VM
	New-AzureRmStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $storageAccName -Location $location -SkuName $skuName -Kind "Storage"

	#Get the storage account where the uploaded image is stored
	$storageAcc = Get-AzureRmStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName $rgName -AccountName $storageAccName

	#Set the VM name and size
	#Use "Get-Help New-AzureRmVMConfig" to know the available options for -VMsize
	$vmConfig = New-AzureRmVMConfig -VMName $vmName -VMSize $vmSize

	#Set the Windows operating system configuration and add the NIC
	$vm = Set-AzureRmVMOperatingSystem -VM $vmConfig -Windows -ComputerName $computerName -Credential $cred -ProvisionVMAgent -EnableAutoUpdate

	$vm = Add-AzureRmVMNetworkInterface -VM $vm -Id $nic.Id

	#Create the OS disk URI
	$osDiskUri = '{0}vhds/{1}-{2}.vhd' -f $storageAcc.PrimaryEndpoints.Blob.ToString(), $vmName.ToLower(), $osDiskName

	#Configure the OS disk to be created from the image (-CreateOption fromImage), and give the URL of the uploaded image VHD for the -SourceImageUri parameter
	#You set this variable when you uploaded the VHD
	$vm = Set-AzureRmVMOSDisk -VM $vm -Name $osDiskName -VhdUri $osDiskUri -CreateOption fromImage -SourceImageUri $imageURI -Windows

	#Create the new VM
	New-AzureRmVM -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Location $location -VM $vm



When complete, you should see the newly created VM in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) under **Browse** > **Virtual machines**, or by using the following PowerShell commands:

	$vmList = Get-AzureRmVM -ResourceGroupName $rgName
	$vmList.Name


## Next steps

To manage your new virtual machine with Azure PowerShell, see [Manage virtual machines using Azure Resource Manager and PowerShell](virtual-machines-windows-ps-manage.md).

Commit message:

adding link to sysprep supported roles based on a CSS request

articles/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-windows-capture-image.md, after:

<properties
	pageTitle="Create a VM image from an Azure VM | Microsoft Azure"
	description="Learn how to create a generalized VM image from an existing Azure VM created in the Resource Manager deployment model"
	services="virtual-machines-windows"
	documentationCenter=""
	authors="cynthn"
	manager="timlt"
	editor=""
	tags="azure-resource-manager"/>

<tags
	ms.service="virtual-machines-windows"
	ms.workload="infrastructure-services"
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="vm-windows"
	ms.devlang="na"
	ms.topic="article"
	ms.date="08/04/2016"
	ms.author="cynthn"/>

# How to create a VM image from an existing Azure VM


This article shows you how to use Azure PowerShell create a generalized image of an existing Azure VM. You can then use the image to create another VM. This image includes the OS disk and the data disks that are attached to the virtual machine. The image doesn't include the virtual network resources, so you need to set up those resources when you create a VM using the image. This process creates a [generalized Windows image](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/hh824938.aspx).


## Prerequisites

- These steps assume that you already have an Azure virtual machine in the Resource Manager deployment model that you want to use to create the image. You need the VM name and the name of the resource group. You can get a list of the resource groups in your subscription by typing the PowerShell cmdlet `Get-AzureRmResourceGroup`. You can get a list of the VMs in your subscription by typing `Get-AzureRMVM`.

- You need to have Azure PowerShell version 1.0.x installed. If you haven't already installed PowerShell, read [How to install and configure Azure PowerShell](../powershell-install-configure.md) for installation steps.

- Make sure the server roles running on the machine are supported by Sysprep. For more information, see [Sysprep Support for Server Roles](https://msdn.microsoft.com/windows/hardware/commercialize/manufacture/desktop/sysprep-support-for-server-roles)

## Prepare the source VM 

This section shows you how to generalize your Windows virtual machine so that it can be used as an image.

> [AZURE.WARNING] You cannot log in to the VM via RDP once it is generalized, because the process removes all user accounts. The changes are irreversible. 

1. Sign in to your Windows virtual machine. In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), navigate through **Browse** > **Virtual machines** > Your Windows virtual machine > **Connect**.

2. Open a Command Prompt window as an administrator.

3. Change the directory to `%windir%\system32\sysprep`, and then run sysprep.exe.

4. In the **System Preparation Tool** dialog box, do the following:

	- In **System Cleanup Action**, select **Enter System Out-of-Box Experience (OOBE)** and make sure that **Generalize** is checked. For more information about using Sysprep, see [How to Use Sysprep: An Introduction](http://technet.microsoft.com/library/bb457073.aspx).

	- In **Shutdown Options**, select **Shutdown**.

	- Click **OK**.

	![Run Sysprep](./media/virtual-machines-windows-capture-image/SysprepGeneral.png)

   Sysprep shuts down the virtual machine. Its status changes to **Stopped** in the Azure portal.


## Log in to Azure PowerShell

1. Open Azure PowerShell and sign in to your Azure account.

		Login-AzureRmAccount

	A pop-up window opens for you to enter your Azure account credentials.

2. Get the subscription IDs for your available subscriptions.

		Get-AzureRmSubscription

3. Set the correct subscription using the subscription ID.		

		Select-AzureRmSubscription -SubscriptionId "<subscriptionID>"


## Deallocate the VM and set the state to generalized		

1. Deallocate the VM resources.

		Stop-AzureRmVM -ResourceGroupName <resourceGroup> -Name <vmName>

	The *Status* for the VM in the Azure portal changes from **Stopped** to **Stopped (deallocated)**.

2. Set the status of the virtual machine to **Generalized**. 

		Set-AzureRmVm -ResourceGroupName <resourceGroup> -Name <vmName> -Generalized

3. Check the status of the VM. The **OSState/generalized** section for the VM should have the **DisplayStatus** set to **VM generalized**.  
		
		$vm = Get-AzureRmVM -ResourceGroupName <resourceGroup> -Name <vmName> -status
		$vm.Statuses

		
## Create the image 

1. Copy the virtual machine image to the destination storage container using this command. The image is created in the same storage account as the original virtual machine. The `-Path` variable saves a copy of the JSON template locally. The `-DestinationContainerName` variable is the name of the container that you want to hold your images. If the container doesn't exist, it is created for you.

		Save-AzureRmVMImage -ResourceGroupName YourResourceGroup -VMName YourWindowsVM -DestinationContainerName YourImagesContainer -VHDNamePrefix YourTemplatePrefix -Path Yourlocalfilepath\Filename.json

	You can get the URL of your image from the JSON file template. Go to the **resources** > **storageProfile** > **osDisk** > **image** > **uri** section for the complete path of your image. The URL of the image looks like: `https://<storageAccountName>.blob.core.windows.net/system/Microsoft.Compute/Images/<imagesContainer>/<templatePrefix-osDisk>.xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx.vhd`.
	
	You can also verify the URI in the portal. The image is copied to a blob named **system** in your storage account. 

2. Create a variable for the path to the image. 

		$imageURI = "<https://<storageAccountName>.blob.core.windows.net/system/Microsoft.Compute/Images/<imagesContainer>/<templatePrefix-osDisk>.xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx.vhd>"


## Create a virtual network

Create the vNet and subNet of the [virtual network](../virtual-network/virtual-networks-overview.md).
		

1. Replace the value of variables with your own information. Provide the address prefix for the subnet in CIDR format. Create the variables and the subnet.

    	$rgName = "<resourceGroup>"
		$location = "<location>"
        $subnetName = "<subNetName>"
        $singleSubnet = New-AzureRmVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name $subnetName -AddressPrefix <0.0.0.0/0>
        
2. Replace the value of **$vnetName** with a name for the virtual network. Provide the address prefix for the virtual network in CIDR format. Create the variable and the virtual network with the subnet.

        $vnetName = "<vnetName>"
        $vnet = New-AzureRmVirtualNetwork -Name $vnetName -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Location $locName -AddressPrefix <0.0.0.0/0> -Subnet $singleSubnet
        
            
## Create a public IP address and network interface

To enable communication with the virtual machine in the virtual network, you need a [public IP address](../virtual-network/virtual-network-ip-addresses-overview-arm.md) and a network interface.

1. Replace the value of **$ipName** with a name for the public IP address. Create the variable and the public IP address.

        $ipName = "<ipName>"
        $pip = New-AzureRmPublicIpAddress -Name $ipName -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Location $locName -AllocationMethod Dynamic
        
2. Replace the value of **$nicName** with a name for the network interface. Create the variable and the network interface.

        $nicName = "<nicName>"
        $nic = New-AzureRmNetworkInterface -Name $nicName -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Location $locName -SubnetId $vnet.Subnets[0].Id -PublicIpAddressId $pip.Id


## Create the VM

The following PowerShell script shows how to set up the virtual machine configurations and use the uploaded VM image as the source for the new installation.

>[AZURE.NOTE] The VM needs to be in the same storage account as the original VHD.

</br>

	
	
	
	#Create variables
	# Enter a new user name and password to use as the local administrator account for the remotely accessing the VM
	$cred = Get-Credential
	
	# Name of the storage account 
	$storageAccName = "<storageAccountName>"
	
	# Name of the virtual machine
	$vmName = "<vmName>"
	
	# Size of the virtual machine. See the VM sizes documentation for more information: https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/virtual-machines-windows-sizes/
	$vmSize = "<vmSize>"
	
	# Computer name for the VM
	$computerName = "<computerName>"
	
	# Name of the disk that holds the OS
	$osDiskName = "<osDiskName>"
	
	# Assign a SKU name
	# Valid values for -SkuName are: **Standard_LRS** - locally redundant storage, **Standard_ZRS** - zone redundant storage, **Standard_GRS** - geo redundant storage, **Standard_RAGRS** - read access geo redundant storage, **Premium_LRS** - premium locally redundant storage. 
	$skuName = "<skuName>"
	
	# Create a new storage account for the VM
	New-AzureRmStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $storageAccName -Location $location -SkuName $skuName -Kind "Storage"

	#Get the storage account where the uploaded image is stored
	$storageAcc = Get-AzureRmStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName $rgName -AccountName $storageAccName

	#Set the VM name and size
	#Use "Get-Help New-AzureRmVMConfig" to know the available options for -VMsize
	$vmConfig = New-AzureRmVMConfig -VMName $vmName -VMSize $vmSize

	#Set the Windows operating system configuration and add the NIC
	$vm = Set-AzureRmVMOperatingSystem -VM $vmConfig -Windows -ComputerName $computerName -Credential $cred -ProvisionVMAgent -EnableAutoUpdate

	$vm = Add-AzureRmVMNetworkInterface -VM $vm -Id $nic.Id

	#Create the OS disk URI
	$osDiskUri = '{0}vhds/{1}-{2}.vhd' -f $storageAcc.PrimaryEndpoints.Blob.ToString(), $vmName.ToLower(), $osDiskName

	#Configure the OS disk to be created from the image (-CreateOption fromImage), and give the URL of the uploaded image VHD for the -SourceImageUri parameter
	#You set this variable when you uploaded the VHD
	$vm = Set-AzureRmVMOSDisk -VM $vm -Name $osDiskName -VhdUri $osDiskUri -CreateOption fromImage -SourceImageUri $imageURI -Windows

	#Create the new VM
	New-AzureRmVM -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Location $location -VM $vm



When complete, you should see the newly created VM in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) under **Browse** > **Virtual machines**, or by using the following PowerShell commands:

	$vmList = Get-AzureRmVM -ResourceGroupName $rgName
	$vmList.Name


## Next steps

To manage your new virtual machine with Azure PowerShell, see [Manage virtual machines using Azure Resource Manager and PowerShell](virtual-machines-windows-ps-manage.md).
