articles/expressroute/expressroute-howto-linkvnet-portal-resource-manager.md, before:

<properties
   pageTitle="Link a virtual network to an ExpressRoute circuit by using the Resource Manager deployment model and the Azure portal | Microsoft Azure"
   description="This document provides an overview of how to link virtual networks (VNets) to ExpressRoute circuits."
   services="expressroute"
   documentationCenter="na"
   authors="cherylmc"
   manager="carmonm"
   editor=""
   tags="azure-resource-manager"/>
<tags
   ms.service="expressroute"
   ms.devlang="na"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
   ms.workload="infrastructure-services"
   ms.date="07/19/2016"
   ms.author="cherylmc" />

# Link a virtual network to an ExpressRoute circuit

> [AZURE.SELECTOR]
- [Azure Portal - Resource Manager](expressroute-howto-linkvnet-portal-resource-manager.md)
- [PowerShell - Resource Manager](expressroute-howto-linkvnet-arm.md)
- [PowerShell - Classic](expressroute-howto-linkvnet-classic.md)



This article will help you link virtual networks (VNets) to Azure ExpressRoute circuits by using the Resource Manager deployment model and the Azure portal. Virtual networks can either be in the same subscription, or they can be part of another subscription.


**About Azure deployment models**

[AZURE.INCLUDE [vpn-gateway-clasic-rm](../../includes/vpn-gateway-classic-rm-include.md)]

## Configuration prerequisites

- Make sure that you have reviewed the [prerequisites](expressroute-prerequisites.md), [routing requirements](expressroute-routing.md), and [workflows](expressroute-workflows.md) before you begin configuration.
- You must have an active ExpressRoute circuit.
	- Follow the instructions to [create an ExpressRoute circuit](expressroute-howto-circuit-arm.md) and have the circuit enabled by your connectivity provider.

	- Ensure that you have Azure private peering configured for your circuit. See the [Configure routing](expressroute-howto-routing-portal-resource-manager.md) article for routing instructions.

	- Ensure that Azure private peering is configured and the BGP peering between your network and Microsoft is up so that you can enable end-to-end connectivity.

	- Ensure that you have a virtual network and a virtual network gateway created and fully provisioned. Follow the instructions to create a [VPN gateway](../articles/vpn-gateway/vpn-gateway-howto-site-to-site-resource-manager-portal.md) (follow only steps 1-5).

You can link up to 10 virtual networks to an ExpressRoute circuit. All ExpressRoute circuits must be in the same geopolitical region. You can link a larger number of virtual networks to your ExpressRoute circuit if you enabled the ExpressRoute premium add-on. Check the [FAQ](expressroute-faqs.md) for more details on the premium add-on.

## Connect a virtual network in the same subscription to a circuit


### To create a connection

1. Ensure that your ExpressRoute circuit and Azure private peering have been configured successfully. Follow the instructions in [Create an ExpressRoute circuit](expressroute-howto-circuit-arm.md) and [Configure routing](expressroute-howto-routing-arm.md). Your ExpressRoute circuit should look like the following image.

	![ExpressRoute circuit screenshot](./media/expressroute-howto-linkvnet-portal-resource-manager/routing1.png)

	>[AZURE.NOTE] BGP configuration information will not show up if the layer 3 provider configured your peerings. If your circuit is in a provisioned state, you should be able to create connections.

2. You can now start provisioning a connection to link your virtual network gateway to your ExpressRoute circuit. Click **Connection** > **Add** to open the **Add connection** blade, and then configure the values. See the following reference example.


	![Add connection screenshot](./media/expressroute-howto-linkvnet-portal-resource-manager/samesub1.png)  


3. After your connection has been successfully configured, your connection object will show the information for the connection.

	![Connection object screenshot](./media/expressroute-howto-linkvnet-portal-resource-manager/samesub2.png)


### To delete a connection

You can delete a connection by selecting the **Delete** icon on the blade for your connection.

## Connect a virtual network in a different subscription to a circuit

At this time, you cannot connect virtual networks across subscriptions by using the Azure portal. However, you can use PowerShell to do this. See the [PowerShell](expressroute-howto-linkvnet-arm.md) article for more information.

## Next steps

For more information about ExpressRoute, see the [ExpressRoute FAQ](expressroute-faqs.md).

Commit message:

Correct ER premium vs standard
Changed the wording as it caused confusion to someone and in fact, it lacked clarity.

articles/expressroute/expressroute-howto-linkvnet-portal-resource-manager.md, after:

<properties
   pageTitle="Link a virtual network to an ExpressRoute circuit by using the Resource Manager deployment model and the Azure portal | Microsoft Azure"
   description="This document provides an overview of how to link virtual networks (VNets) to ExpressRoute circuits."
   services="expressroute"
   documentationCenter="na"
   authors="cherylmc"
   manager="carmonm"
   editor=""
   tags="azure-resource-manager"/>
<tags
   ms.service="expressroute"
   ms.devlang="na"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
   ms.workload="infrastructure-services"
   ms.date="07/19/2016"
   ms.author="cherylmc" />

# Link a virtual network to an ExpressRoute circuit

> [AZURE.SELECTOR]
- [Azure Portal - Resource Manager](expressroute-howto-linkvnet-portal-resource-manager.md)
- [PowerShell - Resource Manager](expressroute-howto-linkvnet-arm.md)
- [PowerShell - Classic](expressroute-howto-linkvnet-classic.md)



This article will help you link virtual networks (VNets) to Azure ExpressRoute circuits by using the Resource Manager deployment model and the Azure portal. Virtual networks can either be in the same subscription, or they can be part of another subscription.


**About Azure deployment models**

[AZURE.INCLUDE [vpn-gateway-clasic-rm](../../includes/vpn-gateway-classic-rm-include.md)]

## Configuration prerequisites

- Make sure that you have reviewed the [prerequisites](expressroute-prerequisites.md), [routing requirements](expressroute-routing.md), and [workflows](expressroute-workflows.md) before you begin configuration.
- You must have an active ExpressRoute circuit.
	- Follow the instructions to [create an ExpressRoute circuit](expressroute-howto-circuit-arm.md) and have the circuit enabled by your connectivity provider.

	- Ensure that you have Azure private peering configured for your circuit. See the [Configure routing](expressroute-howto-routing-portal-resource-manager.md) article for routing instructions.

	- Ensure that Azure private peering is configured and the BGP peering between your network and Microsoft is up so that you can enable end-to-end connectivity.

	- Ensure that you have a virtual network and a virtual network gateway created and fully provisioned. Follow the instructions to create a [VPN gateway](../articles/vpn-gateway/vpn-gateway-howto-site-to-site-resource-manager-portal.md) (follow only steps 1-5).

You can link up to 10 virtual networks to an standard ExpressRoute circuit. All virtual networks must be in the same geopolitical region when using a standard ExpressRoute circuit. You can link a virtual networks outside of the geopolitical region of the ExpressRoute circuit, or connect a larger number of virtual networks to your ExpressRoute circuit if you enabled the ExpressRoute premium add-on. Check the [FAQ](expressroute-faqs.md) for more details on the premium add-on.

## Connect a virtual network in the same subscription to a circuit


### To create a connection

1. Ensure that your ExpressRoute circuit and Azure private peering have been configured successfully. Follow the instructions in [Create an ExpressRoute circuit](expressroute-howto-circuit-arm.md) and [Configure routing](expressroute-howto-routing-arm.md). Your ExpressRoute circuit should look like the following image.

	![ExpressRoute circuit screenshot](./media/expressroute-howto-linkvnet-portal-resource-manager/routing1.png)

	>[AZURE.NOTE] BGP configuration information will not show up if the layer 3 provider configured your peerings. If your circuit is in a provisioned state, you should be able to create connections.

2. You can now start provisioning a connection to link your virtual network gateway to your ExpressRoute circuit. Click **Connection** > **Add** to open the **Add connection** blade, and then configure the values. See the following reference example.


	![Add connection screenshot](./media/expressroute-howto-linkvnet-portal-resource-manager/samesub1.png)  


3. After your connection has been successfully configured, your connection object will show the information for the connection.

	![Connection object screenshot](./media/expressroute-howto-linkvnet-portal-resource-manager/samesub2.png)


### To delete a connection

You can delete a connection by selecting the **Delete** icon on the blade for your connection.

## Connect a virtual network in a different subscription to a circuit

At this time, you cannot connect virtual networks across subscriptions by using the Azure portal. However, you can use PowerShell to do this. See the [PowerShell](expressroute-howto-linkvnet-arm.md) article for more information.

## Next steps

For more information about ExpressRoute, see the [ExpressRoute FAQ](expressroute-faqs.md).
